Produced by Imran Ghory, Stan Goodman, Josephine Paolucci
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

BENEATH THE BANNER

BEING NARRATIVES OF NOBLE LIVES AND BRAVE DEEDS

BY

F.J. CROSS

_ILLUSTRATED_

 "I have done my best for the honour of our country."--GORDON

SECOND EDITION

1895

_BY THE SAME AUTHOR_.

GOOD MORNING! GOOD NIGHT!

TRUE STORIES PURE AND BRIGHT.

In this work will be found a Series of upwards of sixty Chats with
Children, suitable for morning and evening reading. The book abounds
with anecdotes, and contains numerous illustrations.

_Ready about May, 1895_.

CONTENTS.

_Only a Nurse Girl_,--ALICE AYRES

_A Slave Trade Warrior_,--SIR SAMUEL BAKER

_Two Working Men Heroes_,--CASE AND CHEW

_The Commander of the Thin Red Line_,--SIR COLIN CAMPBELL

_A Sailor Bold and True_,--LORD COCHRANE

_A Rough Diamond that was Polished_,--JOHN CASSELL

"_A Brave, Fearless Sort of Lass_,"--GRACE DARLING

_A Friend of Lepers_,--FATHER DAMIEN

_A Great Arctic Explorer_,--SIR JOHN FRANKLIN

_A Saviour of Six_,--FIREMAN FORD

_A Blind Helper of the Blind_,--ELIZABETH GILBERT

_A Great Traveller in the Air_,--JAMES GLAISHER

_The Soldier with the Magic Wand_,--GENERAL GORDON

"_Valiant and True_,"--SIR RICHARD GRENVILLE

_One who Left All_,--BISHOP HANNINGTON

_A Man who Conquered Disappointments_,--SIR HENRY HAVELOCK

_A Friend of Prisoners_,--JOHN HOWARD

_A Hero of the Victoria Cross_,--KAVANAGH

_The Man who Braved the Flood_,--CAPTAIN LENDY

_A Temperance Leader_,--JOSEPH LIVESEY

_A Great Missionary Explorer_,--DAVID LIVINGSTONE

_From Farm Lad to Merchant Prince_,--GEORGE MOORE

_A Man who Asked and Received_,--GEORGE MUeLLER

_A Labourer in the Vineyard_,--ROBERT MOFFAT

"_The Lady with the Lamp_,"--FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE

_For England, Home, and Duty_,--THE DEATH OF NELSON

_A Woman who Succeeded by Failure_,--HARRIET NEWELL

_A Martyr of the South Seas_,--BISHOP PATTESON

"_K.G. and Coster_,"--LORD SHAFTESBURY

_A Statesman who had no Enemies_,--W.H. SMITH

_Greater than an Archbishop_,--THE REV.C. SIMEON

_A Soldier 
Missionary_,--HEDLEY VICARS

_A Lass that Loved the Sailors_,--AGNES WESTON

_A Great Commander on a Famous Battlefield_ THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON

_A Prince of Preachers_,--JOHN WESLEY

_Some Children of the Kingdom_

_The Victor, the Story of an Unknown Man_

_A Boy Hero_,--JOHN CLINTON

_Postscript_

BENEATH THE BANNER.

_STORIES OF MEN AND WOMEN WHO HAVE BEEN STEADY WHEN "UNDER FIRE_".

ONLY A NURSE GIRL!

THE STORY OF ALICE AYRES.

On the night of Thursday, 25th April, 1886, the cry rang through Union
Street, Borough, that the shop of Chandler, the oilman, was in flames.

So rapid was the progress of the fire that, by the time the escapes
reached the house, tongues of flame were shooting out from the
windows, and it was impossible to place the ladders in position. The
gunpowder had exploded with great violence, and casks of oil were
burning with an indescribable fury.

As the people rushed together to the exciting scene they were
horrified to find at one of the upper windows a girl, clad only in her
night-dress, bearing in her arms a child, and crying for help.

It was Alice Ayres, who, finding there was no way of escape by the
staircase, was seeking for some means of preserving the lives of the
children in her charge. The frantic crowd gathered below shouted for
her to save herself; but that was not her first aim. Darting back into
the blinding smoke, she fetched a feather-bed and forced it through
the window. This the crowd held whilst she carefully threw down to
them one of the children, which alighted safe on the bed.

Again the people in the street called on her to save her own life; but
her only answer was to go back into the fierce flames and stifling
smoke, and bring out another child, which was safely transferred to
the crowd below.

Once again they frantically entreated her to jump down herself; and
once again she staggered back blinded and choking into the fiery
furnace; and for the third time emerged, bearing the last of her
charges, whose life also was saved.

Then, at length, she was free to think
 of herself. But, alas! her head
was dizzy and confused, and she was no longer able to act as surely as
she had hitherto done. She jumped--but, to the horror of that anxious
admiring throng below, her body struck against the projecting
shop-sign, and rebounded, falling with terrific force on to the hard
pavement below.

Her spine was so badly injured that although everything possible was
done for her at Guy's Hospital, whither she was removed, she died on
the following Sunday.

Beautiful windows have been erected at Red Cross Hall, Southwark, to
commemorate her heroism; but the best memorial is her own expression:
"I tried to do my best"--for this will live in the hearts of all who
read of her self-devotion. She had tried to do her best _always_. Her
loving tenderness to the children committed to her care and her pure
gentle life were remarked by those around her before there was any
thought of her dying a heroic death. So, when the great trial came,
she was prepared; and what seems to us Divine unselfishness appeared
to her but simple duty.

A SLAVE TRADE WARRIOR.

SOME STORIES OF SIR SAMUEL BAKER.

Sir Samuel Baker, who died at the end of the year 1893, aged
seventy-three, will always be remembered for the splendid work he
did in the Soudan during the four years he ruled there, and for his
explorations in Africa.

In earlier life he had done good service in Ceylon, had been in the
Crimea during the Russian war, and had superintended the construction
of the first Turkish railway.

Then, at the age of forty, he turned his attention to African travel.
Accompanied by his wife, he left Cairo in 1861; and, after exploring
the Blue Nile, arrived in 1862 at Khartoum, situated at the junction
of the White and Blue Nile. Later on he turned southward. In spite of
the opposition of slave owners, and without guide or interpreter, he
reached the Albert Nyanza; and when, after many perils, he got safely
back to Northern Egypt, his fame as an explorer was fully established.
His was the first expedition which had been successfu
l in penetrating
into Central Africa from the north. On his return to England he was
welcomed with enthusiasm, and received many honours.

In the year 1869, at the request of the Khedive of Egypt, Sir Samuel
undertook a journey to the Soudan to put down the slave trade.

He was given supreme power for a period of four years. In December,
with a small army of about 1500 men, he left Cairo for Gondokoro,
about 3000 miles up the Nile, accompanied by his wife. It was a
terrible journey. His men fell ill, the water in the river was low
in many places, and the passage blocked up. At times he had to cut
channels for his ships; the men lost heart; and, had the leader not
been firm and steadfast, he would never have reached his destination.

On one occasion he found his thirty vessels stranded, the river having
almost dried up. Nothing daunted, he cut his way through a marsh,
making a progress of only twelve miles in about a fortnight. At the
end of this time he found it was impossible to proceed further along
that course, and had to return to the place he had left and begin
again.

Still, in spite of all obstacles, he made steady progress.

At Sobat, situated on the Nile above Khartoum, he established a
station, and had a watch kept on passing ships to see that no slaves
were conveyed down the river.

One day a vessel came in sight, and keeping in the middle of the river
would have passed by without stopping. But Sir Samuel, having his
suspicions aroused, sent to inspect it.

The captain declared stoutly he had no slaves aboard. He stated that
his cargo consisted simply of corn and ivory. The inspector was not
convinced, and determined to test the truth of this statement. Taking
a ramrod, he drove it into the corn. This produced an answering scream
from below, and a moment later a woolly head and black body were
disclosed. Further search was made, and a hundred and fifty slaves
were discovered packed as close as herrings in a barrel. Some were
in irons, one was sewn up in a sail cloth, and all had been cruelly
treated.


Soon the irons were knocked off and the poor slaves set free, to their
great wonder and delight.

Sir Samuel arrived at Gondokoro on the 15th of April, 1871. Already
two years of his time had expired. In addition to checking the slave
trade, he had been commissioned to introduce a system of regular
commerce. He set to work at once to show the people the benefits of
agricultural pursuits. He got his followers to plant seeds, and soon
they were happy enough watching for the green shoots to appear.

But before long they began to suffer from want of food. The tribes
round about had been set against them by the slave hunters, and would
supply them with nothing; so that Baker, in the midst of plenty,
seemed likely to perish of starvation. However, he soon adopted
energetic measures to prevent that. Having taken official possession
of the land in the name of the Khedive he seized a sufficient number
of animals for his requirements.

The head man of the tribe and his followers were soon buzzing about
his ears like a swarm of wasps; but seeing he was not to be frightened
by their threats they showed themselves ready enough in the future to
supply him with cattle in return for payment.

His own soldiers were nearly as troublesome as the natives. They
were lazy and mutinous; the sentries went to sleep, the scouts were
unreliable, they were full of complaints; whilst round about him were
the natives, ready to steal, maim, and murder whenever they could get
an opportunity.

His life was daily in danger; and, so as not to be taken unawares, he
organised a band of forty followers for his personal service. On these
men he could always rely. They were proud of the confidence placed
in them, and were ready to go anywhere and do anything. By a strange
perversity they were nicknamed "the forty thieves," though they were
amongst the very few who were honest.

What with sickness and fighting and losses encountered on the way up
the river, Baker's force was now reduced to about five hundred men, in
place of the twelve hundred whom he h
ad once reviewed at Gondokoro.
Still, he did not despair of accomplishing, with God's help, the
mission on which he had been sent.

In January, 1872, with his wife and only two hundred and twelve
officers and men, he started south on a journey of three or four
hundred miles into the region where the slave trade was carried on
with the greatest activity.

He had arranged with one of the chiefs to supply him with two thousand
porters to carry the goods of the expedition; but when the time came
not a single man was forthcoming. So his soldiers had to be their
own carriers for a time. At a later date he was enabled to hire five
hundred men to assist him to transport his goods, and presented each
with a cow as a reward for his services. All took the cows readily
enough, but sixty-seven of the carriers did not appear at the time
appointed. The others were extremely desirous of going to look after
them; but Baker, knowing their ways full well, thought it better to
lose the services of the sixty-seven men rather than to allow this;
for he felt sure if they once returned to search for their companions
there would be no chance of seeing a single one of them again.

After many perils he reached the territory of Kabbu Rega on the
Victoria Nile. The king was apparently friendly at first. But on
several occasions the war drums sounded, and although no violence was
actually offered yet Sir Samuel thought it well to be on his guard.

He therefore set his men to work to build a strong fort. They cut
thick logs of wood, and planted them firmly in the ground, prepared
fireproof rooms for the ammunition, and were in the course of a few
days ready in case of emergency.

These preparations had been made none too soon.

[Illustration: Burning the king's Divan and Huts.]

A few days later a very strange thing happened. The king sent Sir
Samuel a present of some jars of cider. This he gave to his troops. A
little while afterwards one of his officers rushed in to say the men
had been poisoned.

It was really so. The men who had drunk of t
he cider were lying about
in terrible pain, and apparently dying. At once Sir Samuel gave them
mustard and water and other emetics, and they were soon better. But he
knew that trouble was at hand.

Next morning he was standing at the entrance to the fort with one of
his men when a chorus of yells burst upon his ear. He told his bugler
to sound the alarm, and was walking towards the house to get a rifle
when the man beside him fell shot through the heart.

The fort was surrounded by thousands of natives, who kept up
a continuous fire, and the bushes near at hand were full of
sharp-shooters. But the fort was strong, and its defenders fought
bravely; the woods were gradually cleared of sharp-shooters, and the
natives, ere long, broke and fled.

Then Sir Samuel sent a detachment out of the fort, and set fire to the
king's divan and to the surrounding huts to teach the people a lesson
for their treachery.

But the place was full of foes. A poisoned spear was thrown at
Sir Samuel, and every day he remained his force was in danger of
destruction, so he determined to go on to King Riongo, whom he hoped
would be more friendly.

It is wonderful that the party ever got there. First of all it was
found that they would probably be a week without provisions; but,
happily, Lady Baker had put by some supplies, and great was the
rejoicing when her forethought became known.

Then it was discovered that the country through which they had to pass
was full of concealed foes. From the long grass and bushes spears were
constantly hurled at them, and not a few of the men were mortally
wounded. Sir Samuel saw several lances pass close to his wife's head,
and he narrowly escaped being hit on various occasions.

But, at last, Riongo's territory was reached. The king was friendly,
and for a time they were in comparative safety.

By April, 1873, Baker had returned to Gondokoro, and his mission
ended. It was, to a great extent, the story of a failure, so far as
its main purpose was concerned, owing to the opposition of the men who
were making
 a profit by dealing in slaves; and who, whilst appearing
to be friendly, stirred up the natives to attack him. But, failure
though it was, he had done all that man could do; and the expedition
stands out as one of the most glorious efforts which have been made
against overwhelming odds to put an end to the slave trade.

TWO WORKING MEN HEROES.

THE STORY OF CASE AND CHEW.

The large gasholders, which are often a source of wonder to youthful
minds as they rise and fall, are the places in which gas is stored for
the use of our cities.

By day, when they are generally receiving more gas than they are
giving out, they rise; and again at night, when less is being pumped
into them than is going out for consumption in the streets and houses,
they fall. The gasholder is placed in a tank of water, so that there
is no waste of gas as the huge iron holder fills or empties.

Now it was in one of these gasholders that a few years ago two men did
a deed that will live. Here is the brief story.

The holder was being repaired, the gas had been removed, and air had
been pumped into it instead of gas so that men could work inside, and
the holder had risen about fifty feet. Two men were working inside the
holder, one a foreman, and the other a labourer named Case, the latter
in a diver's helmet. They were standing on a plank floating on the
water. Fresh air was being pumped down to Case, who, so long as he
kept on the helmet, was perfectly safe.

All at once the foreman found he was beginning to feel faint, so he
told the labourer they would go up to the top for fresh air. But he
had not the strength to carry out his purpose. The raft was pulled to
the ladder by which they were to get out; but he was unable to ascend,
and fell down in a fainting condition.

Then the labourer, regardless of the danger he was running, unscrewed
his helmet, into which fresh air was being pumped, and, placing it
quite near his fallen comrade, enabled him to get some of the air. The
foreman tried in vain to get Case to put on the helmet; and his own
st
rength was too slight to force him to do so. Indeed, he was in such
a state of weakness that he fell on the raft, and knew no more till he
once again found himself in a place of safety.

Now let us see how the foreman's rescue was effected, and at what
cost. The men at the top of the holder had by this time become aware
that something was wrong below; and two men, Chew and Smith by name,
at once volunteered to go down below. They reached the plank, got a
rope round the foreman's body, when they too began to feel the effects
of the gas, and ascended the ladder, whilst the foreman was being
hoisted up by means of the rope. Smith reached the top in a fainting
condition. Chew never arrived there at all; for just as he got within
a few feet of safety he became insensible, and fell down into the
water below and was drowned. Meantime, Case had become jammed in
between the plank and one of the stays; and so, when at length they
removed him, life had passed away.

Such deeds are so often done by our working men that they think
nothing about it. They do not know that they are heroes--that's the
best of it! It is a fact to be thankful for that everywhere throughout
the land, beneath the rough jackets of our artisans and labourers,
beat hearts as true and fearless as those which have stormed the fort
or braved the dangers of the battlefield.

THE COMMANDER OF THE "THIN RED LINE".

THE STORY OF SIR COLIN CAMPBELL.

It was the 21st Of October, 1808. Colin Campbell, not yet sixteen,
had joined the army as ensign; and the battle of Vimiera was about to
begin.

It was his "baptism of fire". Colin was in the rear company. His
captain came for him, and taking the lad's hand walked with him up and
down in front of the leading company for several minutes, whilst the
enemy's guns were commencing to fire. Then he told the youngster to go
back to his place.

"It was the greatest kindness that could have been shown to me at such
a time; and through life I have felt grateful for it," wrote Colin
Campbell in later life of this incident.

S
oon after, the regiment to which he belonged formed part of the army
that retreated to Corunna, when our troops suffered such terrible
hardships. Colin Campbell had a rough time of it then. The soles of
his boots were worn to pieces, and so long a time did he wear them
without a change that the uppers stuck firmly to his legs; and, though
the boots were soaked in hot water, the skin came away when they were
taken off.

After the battle of Corunna,--when the British brought to bay, turned
and defeated their foes,--it was Colin's regiment that had the honour
of digging the grave in which their heroic commander Sir John Moore
was buried.

Battle after battle followed ere the French troops were driven out of
Spain, and Colin Campbell, young as he was, fought like a veteran.

At Barossa his bravery brought him into special notice, and at the San
Sebastian he led a storming party, and was twice wounded in doing so.

First of all he was shot through the right thigh; but though a storm
of bullets was flying about, and men falling thick around him, he was
up again, and pressed onward only to be again shot down.

For his gallant conduct on this occasion he was specially mentioned in
the despatch that the general commanding the forces sent to the Duke
of Wellington.

A few weeks later the troops moved on, and fought at the battle of
Bidassoa, Colin Campbell being left in the hospital to recover from
his wounds.

But so little was it to his liking to stay in the rear that he escaped
from the hospital, and managed not only to fight at Bidassoa, but to
get wounded again!

He was, of course, reproved by his colonel; but who could be seriously
angry with a youngster for such conduct? So when he was sent back to
England to get healed of his wounds, he was made a captain at the
early age of twenty-one.

Among the first things that Colin Campbell did when he received his
captain's pay was to make his father an allowance of L30 or L40 a
year; and later on it was an immense satisfaction for him to be able
to provide both for his fath
er and sister.

In the Chinese war of 1842 he was in command of the 98th Regiment. The
tremendous heat of the country during the summer terribly thinned the
ranks of his forces, and he lost over 400 men in eighteen months. He
himself was struck down by sunstroke and fever; but, owing probably to
his temperate and careful habits, he soon recovered.

After the Chinese war, Colin Campbell was busy in India, and at
Chillianwallah was wounded in the arm. It was in this battle he
narrowly escaped with his life. The day after the fight, when he was
being assisted to take off his uniform, he found that a small pistol
which had been put in his pocket without his knowledge was broken,
his watch smashed, and his side bruised. A bullet had struck him,
unperceived in the heat of the battle, and his life saved by its force
having been arrested by the handle of the pistol.

In 1849 Colin Campbell was made a K.C.B. (Knight Commander of the
Bath); so we must henceforth speak of him as "Sir" Colin.

March, 1853, saw Sir Colin Campbell in England; but though he had
passed his sixtieth year, most of which had been spent in his
country's service, his rest was not of long duration, as in 1854 he
went out to the Crimea in command of the Highland brigade, consisting
of the 42nd, 79th, and 93rd regiments. Sir Colin was proud of the
splendid troops he commanded, and at the battle of the Alma they
covered themselves with glory.

The 42nd (the Black Watch) were the first of the three regiments
across the river Alma. Whilst ascending the height on the Russian side
of the river, Sir Colin's horse was twice wounded, the second shot
killing it; but he was soon mounted on another horse, leading his men
to victory.

The Guards and Highlanders strove in friendly emulation who should be
first in the Russian redoubt; but Sir Colin, well ahead of his own men
was first in the battery shouting:--

"We'll hae nane but Highland bonnets here!" and his troops rushed in
after him like lions.

The terrific charge of these fierce Highlanders, combined with th
eir
dress, struck terror into the hearts of the Russians; who said that
they thought they had come to fight men, but did not bargain for
demons in petticoats!

"Now, men," Sir Colin had said before the engagement, "you are going
into battle. Remember this: Whoever is wounded--I don't care what his
rank is--must lie where he falls till the bandsmen come to attend to
him.... Be steady. Keep silent. Fire low. Now, men, the army will
watch us. Make me proud of the Highland brigade!"

At the conclusion of that well-fought day the commander-in-chief, Lord
Raglan, sent for Sir Colin. His eyes were full, his lips quivered, and
he was unable to speak; but he gave Campbell a hearty handshake and a
look which spoke volumes.

That was a joyful day for Sir Colin.

"My men behaved nobly," he writes. "I never saw troops march to
battle with greater _sang froid_ and order than these three Highland
regiments."

The Alma had been fought on 20th September, 1854, and on the 25th
October was fought the battle of Balaclava, memorable for the "Thin
Red Line". It looked, at one time, as if the heavy masses of Russian
cavalry must entirely crush Sir Colin's Highlanders; and their
commander, riding down the line of his troops, said: "Remember, there
is no retreat from here, men; you must die where you stand".

"Ay, ay, Sir Colin, we'll do that," came the ready response. Now, it
was usual, in preparing to receive a cavalry charge, for soldiers to
be formed in a hollow square; but on this occasion Sir Colin ranged
his men, two deep, in a _thin red line_, which has become memorable in
the annals of the British army. The Russian cavalry were advancing,
but, instead of the masses which were expected to make the attack,
only about 400 came on.

Sir Colin's men, fierce and eager for the onset, would have dashed
from behind the hillock where they were stationed, but for the stern
voice commanding them to stand firm in their ranks.

The Russians hardly waited for their fire. Startled by the red-coated
Britishers rising up at the word of their lead
er, they broke and fled;
and the men of the 93rd, who, but a little before, had made up their
minds to die where they stood, saw as in a dream their enemies
scattered and broken; and the cloud of horsemen which had threatened
to engulf and annihilate them, make no effort to snatch the victory
which seemed within their grasp.

Before the Crimean war was over, Sir Colin resigned his command, and
returned to England, as a protest against an affront he had received.

Honoured by the Queen with a command to attend her at Windsor, he was
asked by her Majesty to return to the Crimea; and the veteran assented
at once, declaring he would serve under a corporal if she wished it.

The Russian war was soon concluded; and Sir Colin thought that at
length he had finished soldiering. But it was not to be. In the summer
of 1857 the Indian Mutiny broke out, and on 11th July he was asked how
soon he could start for India. The old soldier of sixty-five replied
that he could go the same evening; and on the very next day, Sunday,
he was on his way to take command of the British army in India.

As the Mutiny is alluded to briefly in the story of Havelock, I will
only state that Sir Colin's vigorous, cautious, skilful policy ere
long brought this fearful rebellion to a close.

For his able conduct of the war he was warmly thanked by the Queen;
and at its conclusion was raised to the peerage, under the title
of Lord Clyde. Colin Campbell was an admirable soldier, firm in
discipline, setting a good example, ever thoughtful for the comfort
and well-being of his men, sharing in all the hardships and perils
they passed through. It is, therefore, not surprising that his men
loved him.

Not that he was by any means a perfect man. He had a temper--a very
hasty and passionate temper too, and one that troubled him a good
deal; but he was on the watch for that to see it did not get the
better of him.

Here is an entry from his diary of 5th March, 1846, showing something
of the character of the man. "Anniversary of Barossa. An old story
thirty yea
rs ago. Thank God for all His goodness to me'! Although I
have suffered much from ill health, and in many ways, I am still as
active as any man in the regiment, and quite as able as the youngest
to go through fatigue."

Let us just glance at the way this victor in a hundred fights regarded
the approach of death.

He prepared for his end with a humility as worthy of example as his
deeds in the army had been. "Mind this," he said to his old friend
General Eyre, "I die at peace with all the world."

He frequently asked Mrs. Eyre to pray with him, and to read the Bible
aloud.

"Oh! for the pure air of Heaven," he once exclaimed, "that I might be
laid at rest and peace on the lap of the Almighty!"

He suffered a good deal in his last illness, and at times would jump
up as if he heard the bugle, and exclaim:--

"I am ready!"

And so; when he passed away on the 14th August, 1863, in his
seventy-first year, "lamented by the Queen, the army, and the people,"
he was quite ready to meet that last enemy, death, whom he had faced
so often on the field of battle.

A SAILOR BOLD AND TRUE.

STORIES OF LORD COCHRANE.

All who, forgetful of self, have striven to render their country free
and glorious are true heroes. Of those who have been ready to lay down
their lives for the welfare of Great Britain the number is legion.
From them let us select one as a type of thousands of brave men who
have helped to make Britain mistress of the ocean.

Thomas Cochrane, son of Lord Dundonald, took to the sea as a duck
takes to the water. When he first went on board ship the lieutenant
cared neither that he was Lord Cochrane nor that he was related to the
captain of the ship. He did not spare him one jot; but made him do all
kinds of work, just as if he had been plain Tom Smith. And so it came
to pass that he got a thorough training, and, being a smart youth, was
soon promoted.

Cochrane had the good fortune on one occasion to meet Lord Nelson, who
in course of conversation said to him, "Never mind manoeuvres; always
go at them".

This advice h
e certainly followed throughout his life; and he began
pretty early too. For being in command of a sloop of 158 tons, called
the _Speedy_, with fourteen small guns and fifty-one men, he happened
to come across a good-sized Spanish vessel, with thirty-two big guns,
and over 300 men. The Spaniard, of course, was going to seize on the
little English ship, and, so to speak, gobble it up. But Cochrane,
instead of waiting to be attacked, made for the Spaniard, and, after
receiving the fire of all her guns, without delivering a shot, got
right under the side of the _Gamo_ (so the vessel was called), and
battered into her with might and main. The Spaniards did not relish
this, and were going to board the tiny English craft, but again they
were forestalled; for Cochrane with all his men took the _Gamo_ by
storm, killed some, and frightened others; and ere long a marvellous
sight was witnessed at Minorca, the great _Gamo_ was brought by the
_Speedy_ into the harbour, with over 263 men on board, hale and
hearty, whilst Cochrane never had a fifth of that number!

Ship after ship he took, till his name became a terror to the
Spaniards and French; for he was so audacious, that no matter how big
was the vessel he came across, nor how small his own, he "went at
them," as Nelson had told him to do; and many a stately prize brought
he home as the result of his daring and bravery.

One of the most gallant deeds he did was in connection with the
defence of Rosas. Times had changed since the events related above,
and Great Britain was now helping Spain in her struggle against
France.

When he got to Rosas the place was within an ace of surrender. The
French had pounded the defences into a deplorable condition.

Fort Trinidad, an important position, was about to be assaulted, the
walls having been well-nigh beaten down by the fire of the enemy.

Cochrane however, with an immense quantity of sandbags, palisades, and
barrels, made it pretty secure. But he did a cleverer thing even than
this. There was a piece of steep rock, up which the
 besiegers would
have to climb. This he covered with grease, so as to make it difficult
to get a foothold, and planks with barbed hooks were placed ready to
catch those who were rash enough to seek their aid.

The assault was delivered--up the rock came the French, and--down they
tumbled in dozens and hundreds. Those who caught hold of the planks
were hooked; and, to crown all, a heavy fire was poured into them by
the British.

During the siege the Spanish flag was shot away whilst a heavy
cannonade was going on; but Cochrane, though the bullets were
whistling about in every direction, calmly stepped down into the
ditch, and rescued the flag.

[Illustration: LORD COCHRANE RESCUING THE FLAG.]

When he was not fighting his country's battles at sea, he was
besieging Parliament to bring about reforms in the Navy. This
naturally brought him a good many enemies amongst rich and powerful
people, who were making plenty of money out of the Government, and
doing nothing for it. So, when these persons had a chance of bringing
a charge of conspiracy against him, they were right glad of the
opportunity; and in the end Cochrane was sent to prison.

Some there were who believed in his honour and uprightness. His wife
was in all his trials a very tower of strength to him. The electors
of Westminster, who had sent him to Parliament, never ceased to have
faith in his truth and honour, and re-elected him when still in
prison. Yet, for all this, it was between forty and fifty years before
his innocence was completely proved!

In 1847, however, he was restored to his honours by her Majesty the
Queen; and in 1854 he was made a Rear Admiral of England.

A ROUGH DIAMOND THAT WAS POLISHED.

THE STORY OF JOHN CASSELL.

"I were summat ruff afore I went to Lunnon," said John Cassell.

He had called to see his friend Thomas Whittaker, who was staying at
Nottingham, and John was announced as "the Manchester carpenter".

He was dressed on the occasion in a suit of clothes which a Quaker
friend had given him; but Cassell being tall and thin, an
d the Quaker
short and stout, they did not altogether fit!

The trousers were too short, and the hat too big; accordingly, John's
legs came a long way through the trousers, and his head went a good
way in at the top. "It was something like taking a tin saucepan with
the bottom out and using it as a scabbard for a broad sword," remarked
one who knew him. He had on an old overcoat, and a basket of tools
was thrown over his shoulder with which to earn his food in case
temperance lecturing failed.

When John remarked that he was "summat ruff," the gentleman at whose
house Mr. Whittaker was staying nearly had a fit; and after he had at
length recovered his gravity he ejaculated, "Well, I would have given
a guinea to have seen you before you did go".

Yet John Cassell was a diamond--though at that time the roughest
specimen one could come across from the pit's mouth to the Isle of
Dogs. His ideas were clear cut; he had confidence in himself, he meant
to make a name in the world,--and he _did_.

John Cassell was born in Manchester in 1817. His father, the
bread-winner of the family, had the misfortune to meet with an injury
which entirely disabled him, and from the effects of which he died
when John was quite young. His mother worked hard for her own and her
son's support, and had little time left to look very particularly to
the education of her boy. He, however, grew up strong and hardy.

It is true that when he ought to have been at school he was often at
play, or seeing something of the world, its sights and festivities,
on his own account. True, also, that he tumbled into the river, and
nearly ended his career at a very early age. Still he survived his
river catastrophe; and, though he gained little book learning,
possessed such a good and retentive memory, and was so observant,
that his mind became stored with vivid impressions of the scenes and
surroundings of his youth, which he related with great effect in
after-life.

He had, of course, to begin work at an early age. First of all, he
went into a cotton factory
, and later to a velveteen factory; then,
having a taste for carpentering, he took to it as a trade, though he
was at best but a rough unskilled workman, tramping about the country,
and doing odd jobs wherever he could get them.

One day John Cassell was working at the Manchester Exchange when he
was persuaded to go and hear Dr. Grindrod lecture on temperance. The
lecture seems to have bitten itself into John's mind; for a little
later on, in July, 1835, after hearing Mr. Swindlehurst lecture, he
signed the pledge. That was the unsuspected turning-point of carpenter
John's life.

After this he attended meetings and took an active part on the
platform, and became known as "the boy lecturer". Though he was
dressed in fustian, and wore a workman's apron, he spoke effectively,
and his words went to the hearts of his hearers. His originality of
style, too, pleased the audiences of working people whom he addressed.

In 1836 John Cassell made his first move towards London.

He worked his way to town, and lectured on the road. He carried a
bell, and with that brought together his audiences.

At times he was very roughly handled by the crowd; yet this had no
effect upon him, except to make him the more determined.

His clothes became threadbare, his boots worn out, his general
appearance dilapidated; but he got help from a few good people, who
saw the hero beneath his rags.

He was three weeks accomplishing the journey; and when he arrived
in London spent the first day in search of work, which he failed to
obtain.

In the evening, seeing that a temperance meeting was to be held in a
hall off the Westminster Road, he went to it; and asked to be allowed
to speak. Some of those on the platform viewed with distrust the
gaunt, shabby, travel-stained applicant. But he would take no denial,
and soon won cheers from the audience. When he stopped short, after a
brief address, someone shouted "Go on". "How can a chap go on when he
has nothing to say?" came the ready reply. That night he had no money
in his pocket to pay for a bed; 
so he walked the streets of London
through the weary hours till dawn of day.

Other temperance meetings he addressed; for his heart and mind were
full of that subject. After one of the meetings a gentleman questioned
him as to his means; and, finding the straits he was in, asked if he
were not disheartened.

"No," replied John; "it is true I carry all my wealth in my little
wallet, and have only a few pence in my pocket; but I have faith in
God I shall yet succeed."

Struck by his manifest sincerity, the gentleman introduced him next
day to a friend who took a warm interest in the temperance cause.

"Which wouldst thou prefer, carpentering or trying to persuade thy
fellow-men to give up drinking, and to become teetotalers?" he asked.

Without hesitation John Cassell replied:--

"The work of teetotalism."

"Then thou shalt have an opportunity, and I will stand thy friend."

John Cassell now went forth as a disciple of the temperance cause.
Remembering his experiences on the way to London he furnished himself
with a watchman's rattle, with which he used to call together the
people of the villages he visited.

A temperance paper thus speaks of him in 1837:--

"John Cassell, the Manchester carpenter, has been labouring, amidst
many privations, with great success in the county of Norfolk. He is
passing through Essex--(where he addressed the people, among other
places, from the steps leading up to the pulpit of the Baptist chapel,
with his carpenter's apron twisted round his waist)--on his way to
London. He carries his watchman's rattle--an excellent accompaniment
of temperance labour."

Cassell had a great regard for Thomas Whittaker. It was an address
given by this gentleman which had first made him wish to become a
public man.

When he called on Mr. Whittaker in Nottingham, as already related,
after some conversation had taken place, he remarked:--

"I should like to hear thee again, Tom".

"Well," remarked Whittaker as a joke, "you can if you go with me to
Derby."

John accepted the invitation forthwith, much to hi
s friend's chagrin,
who was bothered to know what to do with him; for he was under the
impression that some members of the family where he expected to lodge
would not give a very hearty welcome to this rough fellow.

This is Mr. Whittaker's narrative of the sequel:--

"We walked together to Derby that day. At the meeting he spoke a
little, and pleased the people. When the meeting was over, he said:--

"'Can't I sleep with you?'

"'Well,' I said, 'I have no objection; but, you know, _I_ am only a
lodger.'

"However, go with me he _would_, and _did_. That was the man. When
John made up his mind to do a thing he did it; and to that feature in
his character, no doubt, much of his future success may be attributed.
The gentleman at whose house he met me at Nottingham, and who was
ashamed of him, subsequently became his servant, and touched his hat
to him; and John has pulled up at my own door in his carriage, with a
liveried servant, when I lived near to him in London."

John Cassell was now in the thick of the fight. In those days the
opposition to the Gospel of Temperance was keen and bitter. Sometimes
there were great disturbances at the meetings, sometimes he was pelted
with rubbish, at times he did not know where to turn for a night's
lodging. It was, on the whole, a fierce conflict; but John was nothing
daunted.

It is, of course, impossible to sum up the amount of a man's
influence. John Cassell scattered the seed of temperance liberally.
Here is a case showing how one of the grains took root, and grew up to
bear important fruit.

The Rev. Charles Garrett, the celebrated teetotal President of the
Wesleyan Conference, writing several years after John Cassell's death,
says:--

"I signed the pledge of total abstinence in 1840, after hearing a
lecture on the subject by the late John Cassell. I have therefore
tried it for more than thirty years. It has been a blessing to me, and
has made me a blessing to others."

How to cure the curse of drink, what to give in its place when the
pleasures of the glass were taken awa
y--that was the problem which
many have tried to solve. None more successfully than John Cassell.

At a meeting in Exeter Hall he suddenly put a new view before his
audience. "I have it!" he exclaimed.

"The remedy is education. Educate the working men and women, and you
have a remedy for the crying evil of the country. Give the people
mental food, and they will not thirst after the abominable drink which
is poisoning them."

He had hitherto been doing something to assist the temperance cause
by the sale of tea and coffee, and he now turned his attention to the
issue of publications calculated to benefit the cause.

Having, at the age of twenty-four, married Mary Abbott, he became
possessed of additional means for carrying out his publishing schemes.

Cheap illustrated periodicals began to issue from the press under his
superintendence, and copies were multiplied by the hundred thousand.

He never forgot that he had been a working man, and one of the first
publications he started was called _The Working Man's Friend_.

It is not necessary to say more. Though John Cassell died
comparatively young--he was only forty-eight when his death took place
in 1865--he had done a grand life's work; and the soundness of his
judgment is shown by the fact that works which he planned retain their
hold upon the people to this day.

John Cassell had his ambitions, but they were of a very simple kind.

"I started in life with one ambition," he said, "and that was to have
a clean shirt every day of my life; this I have accomplished now for
some years; but I have a second ambition, and that is to be an MAP.,
and represent the people's cause; then I shall be public property,
and you may do what you like with me." This latter desire he would
doubtless have realised but for his early decease.

"A BRAVE, FEARLESS SORT OF LASS."

THE STORY OF GRACE DARLING.

She was not much of a scholar, she could not spell as well as a girl
in the third standard, she lived a quiet life quite out of the busy
world; and yet Grace Darling's name is now a h
ousehold word.

Let us see how that has come about.

William Darling, Grace's father, was keeper of the Longstone
Lighthouse on the Farne Islands, off the coast of Northumberland.
Longstone is a desolate rock, swept by the northern gales; and woe
betide the ship driven on its pitiless shores!

Mr. Darling and his family had saved the lives of many persons who had
been shipwrecked ere that memorable day of which I will tell you.

On the night of the 5th September, 1838, the steamer _Forfarshire_,
bound from Hull to Dundee, was caught in a terrific storm off the
Farne Islands. Her machinery became damaged and all but useless, and
the vessel drifted till the sound of the breakers told sixty-three
persons composing the passengers and crew that death was near at hand.

[Illustration: Longstone Lighthouse.]

The captain made every effort to run the ship in between the Islands
and the mainland, but in vain; and about three o'clock on the morning
of the 6th September the vessel struck on the rock with a sickening
crash.

A boat was lowered, into which nine of the passengers got safely,
whilst others lost their lives in attempting to do so. These nine were
saved during the day by a passing vessel.

The _Forfarshire_ meantime was the sport of the waves, which
threatened every minute to smash her in pieces.

Before long, indeed, one wave mightier than the rest lifted her bodily
on to the sharp rocks and broke her in two. Her after-part was swept
away, and the captain, his wife, and those who were in that portion of
the vessel, were drowned. The fore-part meantime remained fast on the
rocks, lashed by the furious billows.

That morning Grace was awakened by the sound of voices in distress,
and dressing quickly she sought her father.

They listened, and soon their worst fears were confirmed. Near at
hand, but still quite beyond reach of help, could be heard the
despairing shrieks of the shipwrecked crew.

To attempt to rescue them seemed quite out of the question. That was
apparent at once to William Darling, skilful boatman 
though he was,
and brave as a lion.

The sea was so terrific that it was ten chances to one against a boat
being able to keep afloat.

But Grace entreated: "Father, we must not let them perish. I will go
with you in the boat, and God will give us success."

In vain Mrs. Darling urged that the attempt was too perilous to be
justified, and reproached Grace for endeavouring to persuade her
father to run such unwarrantable risks.

William Darling saw plainly how many were the chances against success.
Even if the boat was not at once swamped, two persons alone, and one
of them only a girl, were insufficient for the work; for, supposing
they reached the wreck, they would probably be too exhausted to get
back.

No, duty did not demand such an act; and for a time he declined to put
out.

But Grace was quite firm. This girl of three and twenty, never very
robust, had marvellous strength of will; and, her mind being set on
attempting the rescue, she prevailed over both her father's judgment
and her mother's entreaties; and into that awful sea the boat was at
length launched. Though every billow threatened to engulf the frail
craft, yet it nevertheless rode through the mountainous waves and drew
near the rock where the helpless men and women were standing face to
face with death. When it was sufficiently close to the shore William
Darling sprang out to help the weary perishing creatures, whilst Grace
was left to manage the boat unaided.

It was now that her courage was put to the severest test. At this
critical moment the lives of her father and all the survivors depended
upon her judgment and skill.

Well did her past experience and cool nerve then serve her. Alone and
unaided she kept the boat in a favourable position in the teeth of
that pitiless gale; and as soon as her father signalled to her she
waited for an opportune moment and rowed in. Ere long, in spite of
the fury of wind and wave, they had got all aboard, and rowed back in
safety to the lighthouse.

The passengers who were rescued told the story of Grace's cour
age; and
soon the tale was in every newspaper.

George Darling, Grace's brother, speaking of this deed fifty years
after, says: "She always considered, as indeed we all did, that far
too much was made of what she did. She only did what was her duty in
the circumstances, brought up among boats, so to speak, and used to
the sea as she was. Still she was always a brave, fearless sort of
lass, and very religious too--there's no doubting that. But it was
never her wish that people should make so much of what she did."

A great deal was made of the deed certainly, but surely not too much.
A subscription was set on foot, and L700 presented to her, besides
innumerable presents.

Four years later Grace died, much lamented by all who knew her.

Doubtless many a time, before and since, faith as strong, and bravery
as heroic, have been shown, and have passed unrecorded and unnoticed
by men. But duty performed in simple faith and without expectation
of reward brings inward peace and joy greater than any outward
recognition can give.

 * * * * *

GRACE DARLING THE SECOND.

Whilst these pages were passing through the press the news came of the
bravery of another Grace Darling in a far-off land.[1]

[Footnote 1: See letter of Rev. Ellis of Rangoon in _Times_ of 25th
May, 1894.]

Miss Darling was head mistress of the Diocesan School at Amherst near
Rangoon, and her pupils were bathing in the sea when one of them was
bitten in the leg by a shark or alligator. Alarmed by this terrible
shock she lost her balance and was being carried away by the tide when
her sister and the head mistress both went to the rescue. Miss Grace
Darling had succeeded in getting hold of her when she too was bitten
and disappeared under the water. The sister behind cried out for help,
at the same time seizing the head mistress and vainly endeavouring to
keep her head above water. In the end some native sailors came to the
rescue and dragged all three out, but Grace Darling and the favourite
pupil whom she had endeavoured to save were both dead.

A FRIEND OF
 LEPERS.

THE STORY OF FATHER DAMIEN.

Of all forms of disease leprosy is perhaps the most terrible. The
lepers of whom we read in the Bible were obliged to dwell alone
outside the camp; and even king Uzziah, when smitten with leprosy,
mighty monarch though he was, had to give up his throne and dwell by
himself to the end of his days.

In the far-off Sandwich (or Hawaiian) Islands in the Pacific Ocean
there are many lepers; but the leprosy from which they suffer is of a
more fatal kind than that which is spoken of in the Bible.

So as to prevent the spread of the disease, the lepers are sent to one
of the smaller islands, where there is a leper village, in which those
who are afflicted remain until their death.

When a shipload of these poor creatures leaves Honolulu for the little
Isle of Molokai there is great wailing by the relatives of those sent
away, for they know the parting is final.

The disease is not slow in running its course. After about four years
it usually attacks some vital organ, and the leper dies.

Until the year 1873 the lot of the lepers on their help them, that all
hearts were turned in love towards him.

He first made the discovery when he had been at Molokai about ten
years. He happened to drop some boiling water on his foot, and it gave
him no pain. Then he knew he had the leprosy.

Yet he was not cast down when he became aware of the fact, for he had
anticipated it.

"People pity me and think me unfortunate," he remarked; "but I think
myself the happiest of missionaries."

In 1889, sixteen years after landing at Molokai, Father Damien died.

When he was nearing his end, he wrote of the disease as a
"providential agent to detach the heart from all earthly affection,
prompting much the desire of a Christian soul to be united--the sooner
the better--with Him who is her only life".

During his last illness he suffered at times intensely; yet was
patient, brave, and full of thoughtfulness for his people through it
all, and looked forward with firm hope to spending Easter with his
Maker. He d
ied on the 15th April, 1889. "A happier death," wrote the
brother who nursed him in his illness, "I never saw."

There, far away amongst those for whom he gave his life, lie the
remains of one of the world's great examples, whose name will ever be
whispered with reverence, and who possessed to a wonderful extent "the
peace which the world cannot give".

A GREAT ARCTIC EXPLORER.

THE STORY OF SIR JOHN FRANKLIN.

The passage to the North Pole is barred by ice fields and guarded by
frost and snow more securely than Cerberus guarded the approach to the
kingdom of Pluto.

For three centuries and more the brave and daring of all nations have
tried to pass these barriers. Hundreds of men have been frozen to
death, hundreds have died of starvation; and yet men continue to
hazard their lives to find out this secret of Nature.

One of the bravest arctic explorers was Sir John Franklin, who, after
many wonderful adventures, finally died with his companions amid the
frozen seas of the north.

As a little boy, "life on the ocean wave" was to John Franklin a
delightful day-dream. Once when at school he walked twelve miles to
get a sight of the sea and a taste of the salt air; and such was his
desire for a seafaring career that although his father was at first
very much opposed to the idea, yet when he found how strongly Franklin
had set his heart upon a sailor's life, he got him a place on a
war-ship where John took part in the battle of Copenhagen.

Then he was shipwrecked on the coast of Australia, did some fighting
in the Straits of Malacca, and was present at the great battle of
Trafalgar.

After this he had his first taste of Arctic adventure, having received
a commission from the Government to explore the Coppermine, one of the
great rivers of Canada, which discharges its waters into the Arctic
Ocean. Down this river sailed Franklin and his companions. They
encountered rapids and falls, and all kinds of obstacles, and met with
many dangers and disasters.

The first winter they were nearly starved to death. They stayed at

Fort Enterprise; but, long before the spring returned, they found
their food was all but finished, and the nearest place to get more was
five hundred miles away, over a trackless desert of snow. One of their
number, however, tramped the whole weary way, and brought back food to
his starving leader and companions.

Next summer, Franklin descended the river to its mouth, and embarking
in canoes he and his followers made towards Behring Strait, from which
they were ere long driven back by their old dread enemy--starvation.
For many days on their return journey they had nothing to live upon
but rock moss, which barely kept them alive. They became so worn and
ill that they could only cover a few miles a day, and Franklin fainted
from exhaustion.

For eight days they waited on the banks of a river which it was
necessary to pass, but which they had no means of crossing. One of the
men tried to swim across and was nearly drowned, and despair seized on
the party, for they thought the end had come. But there was one man
among them who could not believe God would leave them to perish,
and spurred on by this thought he gathered rock moss in sufficient
quantities to preserve their lives; and, hope springing up again, they
made a light raft on which they passed over to the other side.

Then Franklin set off with eight men to get assistance, whilst others
remained to care for the sick. He and three companions only arrived at
Fort Enterprise. They had to endure a fearful journey, during
which they ate their very boots to preserve life. To their bitter
disappointment when they got there they found the place deserted! Then
they attempted to go to the next settlement; but Franklin utterly
broke down on the way, and was with difficulty got back to Fort
Enterprise. Here they were joined by two of the party who had been
left behind, the others having perished on the way.

The night of their reunion, the six survivors had a grand feast. A
partridge had been shot, and for the first time during an entire month
these men tasted flesh foo
d. Later on, sitting round the fire they had
kindled, words of hope and comfort were read from the Bible, and the
men joined heartily together in prayer and thanksgiving. Shortly
after, friendly Indians arrived with supplies of food, and Franklin
with the survivors of his party returned safely to England.

After this, Franklin made other expeditions, gaining fame and honour
by his explorations, and was for seven years Lieutenant-Governor of
Tasmania.

Then in 1845, when he was in his sixtieth year, he went out in the
service of the Admiralty to attempt the passage through the Arctic
Ocean. Leaving England in May, 1845, in command of the _Erebus_ and
_Terror_, with a body of the most staunch and experienced seamen, he
sailed into the Arctic Seas. They were last seen by a whaler on the
26th of July that year, and then for years no word of their fate
reached Great Britain.

Not that England waited all this time before she sent to discover
what had befallen them. The Government was stirred into action by
the pleadings of Lady Franklin. Expedition after expedition left our
shores. America and France joined in the search. Five years later was
discovered the place in which the _Erebus_ and _Terror_ had first
wintered; but it was left for Dr. John Rae to find out from the
Esquimaux in 1854 that the ships had been crushed in the ice, and that
Franklin and his companions had died of fatigue and starvation.

The final relics of the Franklin Expedition were discovered by
McClintock and a party of volunteers. Starting from England in a
little vessel called _The Fox_ he and his crew passed through a
hundred dangers from shipwreck, icebergs, and other perils. But at
length, in April, 1858, they found on King William's Island the record
which told plainly and fully the fate of Franklin and his companions.

[Illustration: RELICS OF THE FRANKLIN EXPEDITION. 1. Loaded Gun. 2.
Fragment of Ensign. 3. Anvil Block. 4. Portable Cooking Stove. 5.
Chronometers from _Erebus_ and _Terror_. 6. Medicine Chest. 7.
Testament 8. Dipping Needle.]


The document contained two statements, one written in 1846, mentioning
that Sir John Franklin and all were well; and a second, written in
1848, to say that they had been obliged to abandon the _Erebus_ and
_Terror_, that Sir John Franklin had died in June, 1847, and that they
had already lost nine officers and fifteen men.

Other traces of the sad end which overtook the expedition were also
found. In a boat were discovered two skeletons; and amongst other
books a Bible, numerous passages in which were underlined, showing
that these gallant men in their last hours had the comfort of God's
Word to support them when earthly hopes had passed away.

The object for which Sir John Franklin had sailed, viz., the discovery
of the North West passage, had been attained, but no single man of the
expedition, alas, lived to enjoy the fruits of the discovery.

A SAVIOUR OF SIX

THE STORY OF FIREMAN FORD.

In the waiting room at the head quarters of the London Fire Brigade,
in Southwark Street, London, is an oak board on which are fixed a
number of brass tablets, bearing the names of men who are entitled to
a place on this "Roll of Honour".

From amongst these let us take one, and tell briefly what befell him.
It will serve as a sample of the dangers which beset the fireman daily
in the pursuit of his duty.

"Joseph Andrew Ford," so runs the official record, "lost his life at a
fire which occurred at 98 Gray's Inn Road, at about 2 a.m. on the 7th
of October, 1871.

"Ford was on duty with the fire escape stationed at Bedford Row, and
he was called to the fire a few minutes before 2 a.m., and proceeded
there with the utmost speed.

"Before he reached the fire, three persons had been rescued by the
police, who took them down from the second-floor window by means of a
builder's ladder; and, on his arrival, there were seven persons in the
third floor, six in the left-hand window, and one in the right-hand
window.

"He pitched his escape to the left-hand window, and with great
difficulty and much exertion and skill succeeded in gett
ing the six
persons out safely (the woman in the right-hand window being in the
meanwhile rescued by the next escape that arrived, in charge of
fireman W. Attwood); and Ford was in the act of coming down himself
when he became enveloped in flame and smoke, which burst out of the
first-floor window; and, after some struggling in the wire netting, he
fell to the pavement.

"Ford was evidently coming down the shoot when his axe handle or some
of his accoutrements became entangled in the wire netting; so that, to
clear himself, he had to break through, and, while struggling to do
so, he got so severely burned that his recovery was hopeless.

"It was a work of no ordinary skill and difficulty to save so many
persons in the few moments available for the purpose; and, when it
is mentioned that some of them were very old and crippled, it is no
exaggeration to say that it would be impossible to praise too highly
Ford's conduct on this occasion, which has resulted so disastrously to
himself.

"He was thirty-one years of age when he met his death, and he left a
wife and two children to mourn his loss."

That's all the official record says--simple, calm,
straightforward--like Joseph Ford's conduct on that night.

I suppose that next morning two pairs of bright little eyes were on
the watch for Joseph Ford; and perchance four pattering feet ran to
the door when the knock came; and that two little minds dimly realised
that father had been called to a far-off country, where some day they
would see him. And it may be that a brave woman, into whose life the
sunlight had shined, was stricken with grief and bowed down. But all I
know for certain is, that Joseph Ford died in the performance of his
duty. He did a brave night's work. Six lives saved from the angry
flames--old and crippled some of the terror-stricken folk were--and he
took them down so carefully, so tenderly, and landed them all safely
below.

His work was over. He had saved every life he could; and glad of
heart, if weary of limb, he turned with a thankful mind to do 
just the
simplest thing in the world--viz., to descend the escape he had been
down so many times before.

He was young and strong; safety was only thirty feet or so below; and
the people were waiting to welcome and cheer the victor.

Only thirty feet between him and safety! Yet the man was "fairly
roasted" in the escape.

Men have been burnt at the stake and tortured, and limbs have been
stretched on the rack, and people have been maimed by thumbscrews
and bootscrews, and put inside iron figures with nails that tear and
pierce. All this have they suffered in pursuit of duty, or at the
bidding of conscience; and of such and of brave Joseph Ford there
comes to us across the ages--a saying spoken long ago, to the effect
that "he that loseth his life shall save it": and we need to remember
that saying in such cases as that of Fireman Ford.

A BLIND HELPER OF THE BLIND.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH GILBERT.

"A fine handsome child, with flashing black eyes!" Thus was Elizabeth
Gilbert described at her birth in 1826; but at the age of three an
attack of scarlet fever deprived her of eyesight; and thenceforth, for
upwards of fifty years, the beautiful things in the world were seen by
her no more.

Her parents were most anxious that she should take part in all that
was going on in the household, in order that she should feel her
misfortune as little as possible. So she lived in the midst of the
family circle, sharing in their sports, their meals, and their
entertainments, and being treated just as one of the others; yet with
a special care and devotion by her father, Dr. Gilbert, whose heart
went out in deep love towards his little sightless daughter.

Bessie was fond of romping games, and preferred by far getting a few
knocks and bumps to being helped or guided by others when she was at
play. She was by nature passionate, yet she gradually subdued this
failing. She was a general favourite; and, when any petition had to be
asked of father, it was always Bessie who was put forward to do it, as
the children knew how good were h
er chances of being successful in her
mission.

She was educated just like other girls, except that her lessons were
read to her. She made great progress, and was a very apt pupil in
French, German, and other subjects; but arithmetic she cordially
disliked. Imagine for an instant the drudgery of working a long
division sum with leaden type and raised, figures; think of all the
difficulty of placing the figures, and the chances of doing the sum
wrong; and then it will not cause surprise that the blind girl could
never enjoy arithmetic, although in mental calculation she showed
herself later on to be very clever.

When she was about ten years old, the Duchess of Kent and the Princess
Victoria visited Oxford, where Bessie then lived with her parents.
On her return home Bessie exclaimed: "Oh, mamma, I have _seen_ the
Duchess of Kent, and she had on a brown silk dress". Indeed, the child
had such a vivid imagination that she saw mentally the scenes and
people described to her.

And, so though no glimmer of light from the sun reached her, the child
was not dull or unhappy. She listened to the birds with delight, and
knew their songs; she loved flowers and liked people to describe them
to her; and she was fond of making expeditions to the fields and
meadows.

But as Bessie grew up she began to feel some of the sadness and
loneliness natural to her lot. Her sisters could no longer be
constantly with her as in the nursery days; and though she made no
complaint, nor spoke of it to those around her, yet she felt it none
the less keenly.

By this time her father had become Bishop of Chichester.

When Bessie was twenty-seven years old an idea was suggested which
was the means of giving her an object in life, and affording her an
opportunity of doing a great work for the blind.

It was her sister Mary who first spoke about it, having seen with
sorrow how changed the once happy blind sister had become, and longing
to lighten her burden.

Bessie listened to the facts which were set before her of the need
that existed for some on
e to give a helping hand to the blind in
London. She made many inquiries into the condition of the sightless,
and then thought out a scheme for helping them.

Some of her friends considered it a great mistake for her to undertake
such a mission. "Don't work yourself to death," said one of her
acquaintances.

"Work to death!" she replied with a happy laugh. "I am working to
life."

But if a few were opposed, her parents, brothers, sisters, and the
majority of those she loved, were in hearty sympathy.

So in May, 1854, Bessie commenced her life work. Seven blind men were
given employment at their own homes in London; materials were supplied
to them at cost price, they manufactured them, and received the full
price that the articles were sold for.

This, of course, entailed a loss; but Bessie had been left a legacy
by her godmother, which gave her an income of her own, and a large
portion of this she continued to devote throughout her life to helping
the blind.

A cellar was rented in New Turnstile Street, Holborn, at a charge of
eighteenpence a week. A manager, named Levy, was engaged at a salary
of half a crown a week and a commission on sales. He was a blind man
himself, and a blind carpenter was engaged to assist in making the
storehouse presentable.

It was a small beginning, certainly, but it was not long ere Levy's
wages were largely increased, and trade began to grow in response to
Miss Gilbert's efforts. From the cellar in Holborn a move was made to
a better room, costing half a crown a week; and then, within little
more than a year from the commencement, a house and shop were taken at
a rent of L26 a year.

The increase in expenses as the scheme developed rendered it necessary
to ask for public assistance. By the bishop's advice a committee was
formed, and money collected.

By 1856, Miss Gilbert thought her work far enough advanced to bring it
under the notice of Her Majesty, who, having asked for and received
full particulars, sent a very kind letter of encouragement with a
donation of L50.

This gracious
 acknowledgment of the work in which Miss Gilbert was
engaged not only gave sincere pleasure to the blind lady herself, but
helped on her scheme immensely. And the Queen did more than contribute
money: orders for work were sent from Windsor Castle, Osborne and
Balmoral; and the blind people delighted in saying that they were
making brooms for the Queen. The benefit to the blind was not confined
to what Miss Gilbert was doing herself, but general interest in their
welfare was excited in all parts of the kingdom.

Naturally, many difficulties had to be encountered. Blind people
applied for work who wished for alms instead; and arrangements
necessary for carrying out so large a scheme entailed a good deal of
labour on Miss Gilbert's part. Yet she was very happy in her mission,
which attracted numerous friends occupying positions of eminence.

Miss Gilbert herself gave L2000 to the Association as an endowment
fund, and others contributed liberally too. One day a strange old lady
came to see her, and left with her L500 in bank notes. She did not
even give her name; and a further gift of L500 was received the same
year from a gentleman who felt interested in the work.

Up to the close of her life, which ended in 1885, Elizabeth
Gilbert continued to take an active interest in the affairs of the
Association. Notwithstanding her own weak and failing health she
laboured on, winning the love and gratitude of the blind, and
accomplishing a great work of which any one might feel justly proud.

A GREAT TRAVELLER IN THE AIR.

SOME ANECDOTES OF JAMES GLAISHER.

For many years past men of science have been engaged in ascending
far up amongst the clouds for the purpose of finding out as much as
possible about the various currents of air, the electrical state of
the atmosphere, the different kinds of clouds, sound, temperature and
such matters.

One of the most eminent balloonists of modern times, Mr. James
Glaisher, was many times in danger of losing his life whilst in
pursuit of knowledge miles above the earth.

His first ascent 
was made from Wolverhampton on the 17th of July,
1862. It was very stormy at the time of starting. Before he and Mr.
Coxwell got fairly off they very nearly came to grief; for the balloon
did not rise properly, but dragged the car along near the ground, so
that if they had come against any chimney or high building they would
probably have been killed.

However, fortunately, they got clear and were soon high up above the
clouds, with a beautiful blue sky, and the air so pleasantly warm that
they needed no extra clothing, as is usually the case when in the
upper region of the atmosphere. When they were about four miles high
Mr. Glaisher found the beating of his heart become very distinct, his
hands and lips turned to a dark bluish colour, and he could hardly
read the instruments. Between four and five miles high he felt a kind
of sea sickness.

Mr. Coxwell began to think they might be getting too near the Wash for
safety, and they therefore came down quickly, and reached the earth
with such force that the scientific instruments were nearly all
broken. In their descent they passed through a cloud 8000 feet (or
over a mile and a half) thick!

On the 5th of September, 1862, Mr. Glaisher and Mr. Coxwell made one
of the most remarkable ascents in the history of ballooning. It nearly
proved fatal to both.

Up to the time they reached the fifth mile Mr. Glaisher felt pretty
well. What happened afterwards is best described by himself.

"When at the height of 26,000 feet I could not see the fine column of
the mercury in the tube; then the fine divisions on the scale of the
instrument became invisible. At that time I asked Mr. Coxwell to help
me to read the instruments, as I experienced a difficulty in seeing
them. In consequence of the rotary motion of the balloon, which had
continued without ceasing since the earth was left, the valve line had
become twisted, and he had to leave the car, and to mount into the
ring above to adjust it. At that time I had no suspicion of other than
temporary inconvenience in seeing. Shortly a
fterwards I laid my arm
upon the table, possessed of its full vigour but directly after, being
desirous of using it, I found it powerless. It must have lost its
power momentarily. I then tried to move the other arm, but found it
powerless also. I next tried to shake myself, and succeeded in shaking
my body. I seemed to have no legs. I could only shake my body. I then
looked at the barometer, and whilst I was doing so my head fell on my
left shoulder. I struggled, and shook my body again, but could not
move my arms. I got my head upright, but for an instant only, when it
fell on my right shoulder; and then I fell backwards, my back resting
against the side of the car, and my head on its edge. In that position
my eyes were directed towards Mr. Coxwell in the ring. When I shook
my body I seemed to have full power over the muscles of the back, and
considerable power over those of the neck, but none over my limbs....I
dimly saw Mr. Coxwell in the ring, and endeavoured to speak, but could
not do so; when in an instant black darkness came over me, and the
optic nerve lost power suddenly. I was still conscious, with as active
a brain as whilst writing this. I thought I had been seized with
asphyxia, and that I should experience no more, as death would come
unless we speedily descended. Other thoughts were actively entering my
mind when I suddenly became unconscious, as though going to sleep.
I could not tell anything about the sense of hearing; the perfect
stillness of the regions six miles from the earth--and at that time we
were between six and seven miles high--is such that no sound reaches
the ear. My last observation was made at 29,000 feet.... Whilst
powerless I heard the words 'temperature' and 'observation,' and I
knew Mr. Coxwell was in the car, speaking to me, and endeavouring to
rouse me; and therefore consciousness and hearing had returned. I then
heard him speak more emphatically, but I could not speak or move. Then
I heard him say, 'Do try; now do!' Then I saw the instruments dimly,
next Mr. Coxwell, and ve
ry shortly I saw clearly. I rose in my seat
and looked round, as though waking from sleep, and said to Mr.
Coxwell, 'I have been insensible'. He said, 'Yes; and I too very
nearly ...'. Mr. Coxwell informed me that he had lost the use of his
hands, which were black, and I poured brandy over them."

When Mr. Coxwell saw that Mr. Glaisher was insensible he tried to go
to him but could not, and he then felt insensibility coming over him.
He became anxious to open the valve, but having lost the use of his
hands he could not, and ultimately he did so by seizing the cord with
his teeth and dipping his head two or three times.

During the journey they got to a height of 36,000 or 37,000
feet--about seven miles--that is to say, two miles higher than Mount
Everest, the loftiest mountain in the world.

The year following Mr. Glaisher had a narrow escape from drowning.

He and Mr. Coxwell started from the Crystal Palace at a little past
one o'clock on the 18th of April, 1863, and in an hour and thirteen
minutes after starting were 24,000 feet high. Then they thought it
would be just as well to see where they were, so they opened the valve
to let out the gas, and came down a mile in three minutes. When, at a
quarter to three, they were still 10,000 feet high Mr. Coxwell caught
sight of Beachy Head and exclaimed: "What's that?" On looking over the
car Mr. Glaisher found that they seemed to be overhanging the sea!

Not a moment was to be lost. They both clung on to the valve-line,
rending the balloon in two places. Down, down, down at a tremendous
speed they went; the earth appeared to be coming up to them with awful
swiftness; and a minute or two later with a resounding crash they
struck the ground at Newhaven close to the sea. The balloon had
been so damaged that it did not drag along, and though most of the
instruments were smashed their lives were saved.

Much valuable scientific information has been obtained by Mr.
Glaisher, and by those who, like him, have made perilous journeys into
cloudland.

THE SOLDIER WITH THE MAGIC
 WAND.

THE STORY OF GENERAL GORDON.

"That great man and gallant soldier and true Christian, Charles
Gordon."--THE PRINCE OF WALES.

Charles George Gordon was born at Woolwich on the 28th of January,
1833.

In early life he was delicate, and of all professions that of a
soldier seemed least suitable for him. At school he made no mark in
learning.

He was a fearless lad, with a strong will of his own. When he was only
nine years old, and was yet unable to swim, he would throw himself
into deep water, trusting to some older boy to get him out. He was
threatened on one occasion that he should not go on a pleasure
excursion because of some offence he had committed; and when
afterwards he was given permission he stubbornly refused the
treat--circus though it was, dear to the heart of a lad.

After passing through the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich he
obtained in 1852 a commission as a Second Lieutenant of Engineers, and
was sent out to the Crimea in December, 1854, with instructions to put
up wooden huts for our soldiers, who were dying from cold in that icy
land.

On his way he wrote from Marseilles to his mother; and, after telling
her of the sights and scenes he has witnessed, mentions that he will
leave Marseilles "D.V. on Monday for Constantinople".

Whilst in the Crimea he worked in the trenches twenty hours at a
stretch times without number.

Once when he was leading a party at night he was fired at by his own
sentries. On another occasion he was wounded in the forehead, and
continued his work without showing any concern. He found it dull when
no fighting was going on, but when there were bullets flying then it
was exciting enough.

He was mentioned in the official despatches, and received from the
French Government the Cross of the Legion of Honour.

Five years later Gordon was fighting with the English and French
armies in China. Shortly after he was made commander of a force that
was commissioned by the Emperor of China to put down a rebellion
of the Taipings, of so dangerous a character that it threate
ned to
overturn the monarchy.

Gordon had only about 3000 men, chiefly Chinese; and, notwithstanding
the fact that when he took over the force it had just been demoralised
by defeat, he soon proved himself more than a match for the rebel
hordes. From one victory to another he led his men on, and cities fell
in quick succession before him. His name ere long began to have the
weight of an army in the mind of the rebels. Major Gordon, in fact,
had made a great mark in the Chinese Empire.

On the 30th April Gordon was before the city of Taitsan, where three
months before the same army which was now under his command had been
defeated.

Three times his men rushed into the breach which the big guns had
made. Twice they were hurled back; but for a third time Gordon urged
them on, and their confidence in his leadership was such that they
went readily; and this time, after a swift, sharp conflict, the city
was won.

Europeans were fighting both with him and with the rebels. In the
breach at Taitsan he came across two of the men he formerly had under
his command. One was shot during the assault; the other cried out,
"Mr. Gordon! Mr. Gordon! you will not let me be killed". "Take
him down to the river and shoot him," said Gordon aloud. Aside he
whispered, "Put him in my boat, let the doctor attend him, and send
him down to Shanghai". He was stern and resolute enough where it was
necessary, but underneath all was a heart full of love and pity.

During this war the only weapon Gordon carried was a cane; and men
grew to regard this stick as a kind of magic wand, and Gordon as a man
whom nothing could harm.

On one occasion when he was wounded he refused to retire till he was
forcibly carried off the field by the doctor's orders.

After he had put an end to the rebellion the Emperor of China wanted
to give him a large sum of money; but Gordon, whose only object in
fighting was to benefit the people, refused it, and left China as poor
as he had entered it. He had various distinctions conferred upon him
by the emperor, and the Eng
lish people gave him the title of "Chinese
Gordon".

A gold medal was presented to him by the emperor. Gordon, obliterating
the inscription, sent it anonymously to the Coventry relief fund. Of
this incident he wrote at a later period: "Never shall I forget what
I got when I scored out the inscription on the gold medal. How I have
been repaid a millionfold! There is now not one thing I value in
the world. Its honours, they are false; its knicknacks, they are
perishable and useless; whilst I live I value God's blessing--health;
and if you have that, as far as this world goes, you are rich."

He returned to England and settled down at Gravesend, living quite
simply, and working in his spare moments amongst the poor. To the boys
he was a hero indeed. That was but natural, seeing he not only taught
them to read and write, and tried to get them situations, but treated
them as his friends.

In his sitting-room was a map of the world, with pins stuck in it
marking the probable positions of the ships in which his "kings" (as
he called his boys) were to be found in various parts of the world.
Thus, as they moved from place to place, he followed them in his
thoughts, and was able to point out their whereabouts to inquiring
friends.

It is no wonder then that the urchins scrawled upon the walls of the
town, "C.G. is a jolly good feller". "God bless the Kernel."

He visited the hospitals and workhouses, and all the money he received
he expended on the poor; for he believed that having given his heart
to God he had no right to keep anything for himself. He comforted the
sick and dying, he taught in the Ragged and Sunday Schools. He lived
on the plainest food himself, thus "enduring hardness". He even gave
up his garden, turning it into a kind of allotment for the needy.

He had one object in life--to do good. His views were utterly
unworldly and opposed to those generally held, but they were in the
main right.

In 1874 Gordon went to Egypt, and at the request of the Khedive
undertook the position of Governor-General of the Sou
<|endoftext|>
E-text prepared by Suzanne Shell, Sarah Lewis, and Project Gutenberg
Distributed Proofreaders

Tenterhooks

[Book 2 of The Little Ottleys]

by Ada Leverson

1912

TO ROBERT ROSS

CHAPTER I

A Verbal Invitation

Because Edith had not been feeling very well, that seemed no reason why
she should be the centre of interest; and Bruce, with that jealousy of
the privileges of the invalid and in that curious spirit of rivalry
which his wife had so often observed, had started, with enterprise, an
indisposition of his own, as if to divert public attention. While he
was at Carlsbad he heard the news. Then he received a letter from
Edith, speaking with deference and solicitude of Bruce's rheumatism,
entreating him to do the cure thoroughly, and suggesting that they
should call the little girl Matilda, after a rich and sainted--though
still living--aunt of Edith's. It might be an advantage to the child's
future (in every sense) to have a godmother so wealthy and so
religious. It appeared from the detailed description that the new
daughter had, as a matter of course (and at two days old), long golden
hair, far below her waist, sweeping lashes and pencilled brows, a
rosebud mouth, an intellectual forehead, chiselled features and a tall,
elegant figure. She was a magnificent, regal-looking creature and was a
superb beauty of the classic type, and yet with it she was dainty and
winsome. She had great talent for music. This, it appeared, was shown
by the breadth between the eyes and the timbre of her voice.

Overwhelmed with joy at the advent of such a paragon, and horrified at
Edith's choice of a name, Bruce had replied at once by wire,
impulsively:

_'Certainly not Matilda I would rather she were called Aspasia.'_

Edith read this expression of feeling on a colourless telegraph form,
and as she was, at Knightsbridge, unable to hear the ironical tone of
the message she took it literally.

She criticised the name, but was easily persuaded by her mother-in-law
to make no objection. The elder Mrs Ottley pointed out that it might
hav
e been very much worse.

'But it's not a pretty name,' objected Edith. 'If it wasn't to be
Matilda, I should rather have called her something out of
Maeterlinck--Ygraine, or Ysolyn--something like that.'

'Yes, dear, Mygraine's a nice name, too,' said Mrs Ottley, in her
humouring way, 'and so is Vaselyn. But what does it really matter? I
shouldn't hold out on a point like this. One gets used to a name. Let
the poor child be called Asparagus if he wishes it, and let him feel he
has got his own way.'

So the young girl was named Aspasia Matilda Ottley. It was
characteristic of Edith that she kept to her own point, though not
aggressively. When Bruce returned after his after-cure, it was too
late to do anything but pretend he had meant it seriously.

Archie called his sister Dilly.

Archie had been rather hurt at the--as it seemed to him--unnecessary
excitement about Dilly. Not that he was jealous in any way. It was
rather that he was afraid it would spoil her to be made so much of at
her age; make her, perhaps, egotistical and vain. But it was not
Archie's way to show these fears openly. He did not weep loudly or
throw things about as many boys might have done. His methods were more
roundabout, more subtle. He gave hints and suggestions of his views
that should have been understood by the intelligent. He said one
morning with some indirectness:

'I had such a lovely dream last night, Mother.'

'Did you, pet? How sweet of you. What was it?'

'Oh, nothing much. It was all right. Very nice. It was a lovely dream.
I dreamt I was in heaven.'

'Really! How delightful. Who was there?'

This is always a woman's first question.

'Oh, you were there, of course. And father. Nurse, too. It was a lovely
dream. Such a nice place.'

'Was Dilly there?'

'Dilly? Er--no--no--she wasn't. She was in the night nursery, with
Satan.'

Sometimes Edith thought that her daughter's names were decidedly a
failure--Aspasia by mistake, Matilda through obstinacy, and Dilly by
accident. However the child herself was a success. She was four years

old when the incident occurred about the Mitchells. The whole of this
story turns eventually on the Mitchells.

The Ottleys lived in a concise white flat at Knightsbridge. Bruce's
father had some time ago left him a good income on certain conditions;
one was that he was not to leave the Foreign Office before he was
fifty. One afternoon Edith was talking to the telephone in a voice of
agonised entreaty that would have melted the hardest of hearts, but did
not seem to have much effect on the Exchange, which, evidently, was not
responsive to pathos that day.

'Oh! Exchange, _why_ are you ringing off? _Please_ try again.... Do I
want any number? Yes, I do want any number, of course, or why should I
ring up?... I want 6375 Gerrard.'

Here Archie interposed.

'Mother, can I have your long buttonhook?'

'No, Archie, you can't just now, dear.... Go away Archie.... Yes, I
said 6375 Gerrard. Only 6375 Gerrard!... Are you there? Oh, don't keep
on asking me if I've got them!... No, they haven't answered.... Are you
6375?... Oh--wrong number--sorry.... 6375 Gerrard? Only six--are you
there?... Not 6375 Gerrard?... Are you anyone else?... Oh, is it you,
Vincy?... I want to tell you--'

'Mother, can I have your long buttonhook?'

Here Bruce came in. Edith rang off. Archie disappeared.

'It's really rather wonderful, Edith, what that Sandow exerciser has
done for me! You laughed at me at first, but I've improved
marvellously.'

Bruce was walking about doing very mild gymnastics, and occasionally
hitting himself on the left arm with the right fist.' Look at my
muscle--look at it--and all in such a short time!'

'Wonderful!' said Edith.

'The reason I know what an extraordinary effect these few days have had
on me is something I have just done which I couldn't have done before.
Of course I'm naturally a very powerful man, and only need a little--'

'What have you done?'

'Why--you know that great ridiculous old wooden chest that your awful
Aunt Matilda sent you for your birthday--absurd present I call it--mere
lumber.'

'Yes?'

'W
hen it came I could barely push it from one side of the room to the
other. Now I've lifted it from your room to the box-room. Quite
easily. Pretty good, isn't it?'

'Yes, of course it's very good for you to do all these exercises; no
doubt it's capital.... Er--you know I've had all the things taken out
of the chest since you tried it before, don't you?'

'Things--what things? I didn't know there was anything in it.'

'Only a silver tea-service, and a couple of salvers,' said Edith, in a
low voice....

...He calmed down fairly soon and said: 'Edith, I have some news for
you. You know the Mitchells?'

'Do I know the _Mitchells_? Mitchell, your hero in your office, that
you're always being offended with--at _least_ I know the Mitchells by
_name_. I ought to.'

'Well, what do you think they've done? They've asked us to dinner.'

'Have they? Fancy!'

'Yes, and what I thought was so particularly jolly of him was that it
was a verbal invitation. Mitchell said to me, just like this, 'Ottley,
old chap, are you doing anything on Sunday evening?''

Here Archie came to the door and said, 'Mother, can I have your long
buttonhook?'

Edith shook her head and frowned.

''Ottley, old chap,'' continued Bruce, ''are you and your wife doing
anything on Sunday? If not, I do wish you would waive ceremony and come
and dine with us. Would Mrs Ottley excuse a verbal invitation, do you
think?' I said, 'Well, Mitchell, as a matter of fact I don't believe we
have got anything on. Yes, old boy, we shall be delighted.' I accepted,
you see. I accepted straight out. When you're treated in a friendly
way, I always say why be unfriendly? And Mrs Mitchell is a charming
little woman--I'm sure you'd like her. It seems she's been dying to
know you.'

'Fancy! I wonder she's still alive, then, because you and Mitchell have
known each other for eight years, and I've never met her yet.'

'Well, you will now. Let bygones be bygones. They live in Hamilton
Place.'

'Oh yes....Park Lane?'

'I told you he was doing very well, and his wife has private means.'


'Mother,' Archie began again, like a litany, 'can I have your long
buttonhook? I know where it is.'

'No, Archie, certainly not; you can't fasten laced boots with a
buttonhook.... Well, that will be fun, Bruce.'

'I believe they're going to have games after dinner,' said Bruce. 'All
very jolly--musical crambo--that sort of thing.... What shall you wear,
Edith?'

'Mother, do let me have your long buttonhook. I want it. It isn't for
my boots.'

'_Certainly_ not. What a nuisance you are! Do go away.... I think I
shall wear my salmon- dress with the sort of mayonnaise-
 sash.... (No, you're not to have it, Archie).'

'But, Mother, I've got it.... I can soon mend it, Mother.'

On Sunday evening Bruce's high spirits seemed to flag; he had one of
his sudden reactions. He looked at everything on its dark side.

'What on earth's that thing in your hair, Edith?'

'It's a bandeau.'

'I don't like it. Your hair looks very nice without it. What on _earth_
did you get it for?'

'For about six-and-eleven, I think.'

'Don't be trivial, Edith. We shall be late. Ah! It really does seem
rather a pity, the very first time one dines with people like the
Mitchells.'

'We sha'n't be late, Bruce. It's eight o'clock, and eight o'clock I
suppose means--well, eight. Sure you've got the number right?'

'Really. Edith!... My memory is unerring, dear. I never make a mistake.
Haven't you ever noticed it?'

'A--oh yes--I think I have.'

'Well, it's 168 Hamilton Place. Look sharp, dear.'

On their way in the taxi he gave her a good many instructions and
advised her to be perfectly at her ease and _absolutely natural_; there
was nothing to make one otherwise, in either Mr or Mrs Mitchell. Also,
he said, it didn't matter a bit what she wore, as long as she had put
on her _best_ dress. It seemed a pity she had not got a new one, but
this couldn't be helped, as there was now no time. Edith agreed that
she knew of no really suitable place where she could buy a new evening
dress at eight-thirty on Sunday evening. And, anyhow, he said, she
looked quit
e nice, really very smart; besides, Mrs Mitchell was not the
sort of person who would think any the less of a pretty woman for being
a little dowdy and out of fashion.

When they drove up to what house agents call in their emotional way a
superb, desirable, magnificent town mansion, they saw that a large
dinner-party was evidently going on. A hall porter and four powdered
footmen were in evidence.

'By Jove!' said Bruce, as he got out, 'I'd no idea old Mitchell did
himself so well as this.'... The butler had never heard of the
Mitchells. The house belonged to Lord Rosenberg.

'Confound it! 'said Bruce, as he flung himself into the taxi. 'Well!
I've made a mistake for once in my life. I admit it. Of course, it's
really Hamilton Gardens. Sorry. Yet somehow I'm rather glad Mitchell
doesn't live in that house.'

'You are perfectly right,' said Edith: 'the bankruptcy of an old friend
and colleague could be no satisfaction to any man.'

Hamilton Gardens was a gloomy little place, like a tenement building
out of Marylebone Road. Bruce, in trying to ring the bell,
unfortunately turned out all the electric light in the house, and was
standing alone in despair in the dark when, fortunately the porter, who
had been out to post a letter, ran back, and turned up the light
again.... 'I shouldn't have thought they could play musical crambo
here, 'he called out to Edith while he was waiting. 'And now isn't it
odd? I have a funny kind of feeling that the right address is Hamilton
House.'

'I suppose you're perfectly certain they don't live at a private idiot
asylum?' Edith suggested doubtfully.

On inquiry it appeared the Mitchells did not live at Hamilton Gardens.
An idea occurred to Edith, and she asked for a directory.

The Winthrop Mitchells lived at Hamilton Terrace, St John's Wood.

'At last!' said Bruce. 'Now we shall be too disgracefully late for the
first time. But be perfectly at your ease, dear. Promise me that. Go in
quite naturally.'

'How else can I go in?'

'I mean as if nothing had happened.'

'I think we'd better
 tell them what _has_ happened,' said Edith; 'it
will make them laugh. I hope they will have begun their dinner.'

'Surely they will have finished it.'

'Perhaps we may find them at their games!'

'Now, now, don't be bitter, Edith dear--never be bitter--life has its
ups and downs.... Well! I'm rather glad, after all, that Mitchell
doesn't live in that horrid little hole.'

'I'm sure you are,' said Edith; 'it could be no possible satisfaction
to you to know that a friend and colleague of yours is either
distressingly hard up or painfully penurious.'

They arrived at the house, but there were no lights, and no sign of
life. The Mitchells lived here all right, but they were out. The
parlourmaid explained. The dinner-party had been Saturday, the night
before....

'Strange,' said Bruce, as he got in again. 'I had a curious
presentiment that something was going wrong about this dinner at the
Mitchells'.'

'What dinner at the Mitchells'? There doesn't seem to be any.'

'Do you know,' Bruce continued his train of thought, 'I felt certain
somehow that it would be a failure. Wasn't it odd? I often think I'm a
pessimist, and yet look how well I'm taking it. I'm more like a
fatalist--sometimes I hardly know what I am.'

'I could tell you what you are,' said Edith, 'but I won't, because now
you must take me to the Carlton. We shall get there before it's
closed.'

CHAPTER II

Opera Glasses

Whether to behave with some coolness to Mitchell, and be stand-offish,
as though it had been all his fault, or to be lavishly apologetic, was
the question. Bruce could not make up his mind which attitude to take.
In a way, it was all the Mitchells' fault. They oughtn't to have given
him a verbal invitation. It was rude, Bohemian, wanting in good form;
it showed an absolute and complete ignorance of the most ordinary and
elementary usages of society. It was wanting in common courtesy;
really, when one came to think about it, it was an insult. On the other
hand, technically, Bruce was in the wrong. Having accepted he ought to
have turned up o
n the right night. It may have served them right (as he
said), but the fact of going on the wrong night being a lesson to them
seemed a little obscure. Edith found it difficult to see the point.

Then he had a more brilliant idea; to go into the office as cheerily as
ever, and say to Mitchell pleasantly, 'We're looking forward to next
Saturday, old chap,' pretending to have believed from the first that
the invitation had been for the Saturday week; and that the dinner was
still to come....

This, Edith said, would have been excellent, provided that the
parlourmaid hadn't told them that she and Bruce had arrived about a
quarter to ten on Sunday evening and asked if the Mitchells had begun
dinner. The chances against the servant having kept this curious
incident to herself were almost too great.

After long argument and great indecision the matter was settled by a
cordial letter from Mrs Mitchell, asking them to dinner on the
following Thursday, and saying she feared there had been some mistake.
So that was all right.

Bruce was in good spirits again; he was pleased too, because he was
going to the theatre that evening with Edith and Vincy, to see a play
that he thought wouldn't be very good. He had almost beforehand settled
what he thought of it, and practically what he intended to say.

But when he came in that evening he was overheard to have a strenuous
and increasingly violent argument with Archie in the hall.

Edith opened the door and wanted to know what the row was about.

'Will you tell me, Edith, where your son learns such language? He keeps
on worrying me to take him to the Zoological Gardens to see
the--well--you'll hear what he says. The child's a perfect nuisance.
Who put it into his head to want to go and see this animal? I was
obliged to speak quite firmly to him about it.'

Edith was not alarmed that Bruce had been severe. She thought it much
more likely that Archie had spoken very firmly to him. He was always
strict with his father, and when he was good Bruce found fault with
him. As soon as he gr
ew really tiresome his father became abjectly
apologetic.

Archie was called and came in, dragging his feet, and pouting, in tears
that he was making a strenuous effort to encourage.

'You must be firm with him,' continued Bruce. 'Hang it! Good heavens!
Am I master in my own house or am I not?'

There was no reply to this rhetorical question.

He turned to Archie and said in a gentle, conciliating voice:

'Archie, old chap, tell your mother what it is you want to see. Don't
cry, dear.'

'Want to see the damned chameleon,' said Archie, with his hands in his
eyes. 'Want father to take me to the Zoo.'

'You can't go to the Zoo this time of the evening. What do you mean?'

'I want to see the damned chameleon.'

'You hear!' exclaimed Bruce to Edith.

'Who taught you this language?'

'Miss Townsend taught it me.'

'There! It's dreadful, Edith; he's becoming a reckless liar. Fancy her
dreaming of teaching him such things! If she did, of course she must be
mad, and you must send her away at once. But I'm quite sure she
didn't.'

'Come, Archie, you know Miss Townsend never taught you to say that.
What have you got into your head?'

'Well, she didn't exactly teach me to say it--she didn't give me
lessons in it--but she says it herself. She said the damned chameleon
was lovely; and I want to see it. She didn't say I ought to see it. But
I want to. I've been wanting to ever since. She said it at lunch today,
and I do want to. Lots of other boys go to the Zoo, and why shouldn't
I? I want to see it so much.'

'Edith, I must speak to Miss Townsend about this very seriously. In the
first place, people have got no right to talk about queer animals to
the boy at all--we all know what he is--and in such language! I should
have thought a girl like Miss Townsend, who has passed examinations in
Germany, and so forth, would have had more sense of her
responsibility--more tact. It shows a dreadful want of--I hardly know
what to think of it--the daughter of a clergyman, too!'

'It's all right, Bruce,' Edith laughed. 'Miss Townsend told m
e she had
been to see the _Dame aux Camelias_ some time ago. She was enthusiastic
about it. Archie dear, I'll take you to the Zoological Gardens and
we'll see lots of other animals. And don't use that expression.'

'What! Can't I see the da--'

'Mr Vincy,' announced the servant.

'I must go and dress,' said Bruce.

Vincy Wenham Vincy was always called by everyone simply Vincy. Applied
to him it seemed like a pet name. He had arrived at the right moment,
as he always did. He was very devoted to both Edith and Bruce, and he
was a confidant of both. He sometimes said to Edith that he felt he was
just what was wanted in the little home; an intimate stranger coming in
occasionally with a fresh atmosphere was often of great value (as, for
instance, now) in calming or averting storms.

Had anyone asked Vincy exactly what he was he would probably have said
he was an Observer, and really he did very little else, though after he
left Oxford he had taken to writing a little, and painting less. He was
very fair, the fairest person one could imagine over five years old. He
had pale silky hair, a minute fair moustache, very good features, a
single eyeglass, and the appearance, always, of having been very
recently taken out of a bandbox.

But when people fancied from this look of his that he was an
empty-headed <DW2> they soon found themselves immensely mistaken.

He was thirty-eight, but looked a gilded youth of twenty; and _was_
sufficiently gilded (as he said), not perhaps exactly to be
comfortable, but to enable him to get about comfortably, and see those
who were.

He had a number of relatives in high places, who bored him, and were
always trying to get him married. He had taken up various occupations
and travelled a good deal. But his greatest pleasure was the study of
people. There was nothing cold in his observation, nothing of the
cynical analyst. He was impulsive, though very quiet, immensely and
ardently sympathetic and almost too impressionable and enthusiastic. It
was not surprising that he was immensely popular ge
nerally, as well as
specially; he was so interested in everyone except himself.

No-one was ever a greater general favourite. There seemed to be no type
of person on whom he jarred. People who disagreed on every other
subject agreed in liking Vincy.

But he did not care in the least for acquaintances, and spent much
ingenuity in trying to avoid them; he only liked intimate friends, and
of all he had perhaps the Ottleys were his greatest favourites.

His affection for them dated from a summer they had spent in the same
hotel in France. He had become extraordinarily interested in them. He
delighted in Bruce, but had with Edith, of course, more mutual
understanding and intellectual sympathy, and though they met
constantly, his friendship with her had never been misunderstood.
Frivolous friends of his who did not know her might amuse themselves by
being humorous and flippant about Vincy's little Ottleys, but no-one
who had ever seen them together could possibly make a mistake. They
were an example of the absurdity of a tradition--'the world's'
proneness to calumny. Such friendships, when genuine, are never
misconstrued. Perhaps society is more often taken in the other way. But
as a matter of fact the truth on this subject, as on most others, is
always known in time. No-one had ever even tried to explain away the
intimacy, though Bruce had all the air of being unable to do without
Vincy's society sometimes cynically attributed to husbands in a
different position.

Vincy was pleased with the story of the Mitchells that Edith told him,
and she was glad to hear that he knew the Mitchells and had been to the
house.

'How like you to know everyone. What did they do?'

'The night I was there they played games,' said Vincy. He spoke in a
soft, even voice. 'It was just a little--well--perhaps just a _tiny_
bit ghastly, I thought; but don't tell Bruce. That evening I thought
the people weren't quite young enough, and when they played 'Oranges
and Lemons, and the Bells of St Clements,' and so on--their bones
seemed to--well, so
rt of rattle, if you know what I mean. But still
perhaps it was only my fancy. Mitchell has such very high spirits, you
see, and is determined to make everything go. He won't have
conventional parties, and insists on plenty of verve; so, of course,
one's forced to have it.' He sighed. 'They haven't any children, and
they make a kind of hobby of entertaining in an unconventional way.'

'It sounds rather fun. Perhaps you will be asked next Thursday. Try.'

'I'll try. I'll call, and remind her of me. I daresay she'll ask me.
She's very good-natured. She believes in spiritualism, too.'

'I wonder who'll be there?'

'Anyone might be there, or anyone else. As they say of marriage, it's a
lottery. They might have roulette, or a spiritual seance, or Kubelik,
or fancy dress heads.'

'Fancy dress heads!'

'Yes. Or a cotillion, or just bridge. You never know. The house is
rather like a country house, and they behave accordingly. Even
hide-and-seek, I believe, sometimes. And Mitchell adores unpractical
jokes, too.'

'I see. It's rather exciting that I'm going to the Mitchells at last.'

'Yes, perhaps it will be the turning-point of your life,' said Vincy.
'Ah! here's Bruce.'

'I don't think much of that opera glass your mother gave you,' Bruce
remarked to his wife, soon after the curtain rose.

'It's the fashion,' said Edith. 'It's jade--the latest thing.'

'I don't care if it is the fashion. It's no use. Here, try it, Vincy.'

He handed it to Vincy, who gave Bruce a quick look, and then tried it.

'Rather quaint and pretty, I think. I like the effect,' he said,
handing it back to Bruce.

'It may be quaint and pretty, and it may be the latest thing, and it
may be jade,' said Bruce rather sarcastically, 'but I'm not a slave to
fashion. I never was. And I don't see any use whatever in an opera
glass that makes everything look smaller instead of larger, and at a
greater distance instead of nearer. I call it rot. I always say what I
think. And you can tell your mother what I said if you like.'

'You're looking through it the wro
ng side, dear,' said Edith.

CHAPTER III

The Golden Quoribus

Edith had been very pretty at twenty, but at twenty-eight her
prettiness had immensely increased; she had really become a beauty of a
particularly troubling type. She had long, deep blue eyes, clearly-cut
features, hair of that soft, fine light brown just tinged with red
called by the French chatain clair; and a flower-like complexion. She
was slim, but not angular, and had a reposeful grace and a decided
attraction for both men and women. They generally tried to express this
fascination by discovering resemblances in her to various well-known
pictures of celebrated artists. She had been compared to almost every
type of all the great painters: Botticelli, Sir Peter Lely,
Gainsborough, Burne-Jones. Some people said she was like a Sargent,
others called her a post-impressionist type; there was no end to the
old and new masters of whom she seemed to remind people; and she
certainly had the rather insidious charm of somehow recalling the past
while suggesting something undiscovered in the future. There was a good
deal that was enigmatic about her. It was natural, not assumed as a
pose of mysteriousness. She was not all on the surface: not obvious.
One wondered. Was she capable of any depth of feeling? Was she always
just sweet and tactful and clever, or could there be another side to
her character? Had she (for instance) a temperament? This question was
considered one of interest,--so Edith had a great many admirers. Some
were new and fickle, others were old and faithful. She had never yet
shown more than a conversational interest in any of them, but always
seemed to be laughing with a soft mockery at her own success.

Edith was not a vain woman, not even much interested in dress, though
she had a quick eye and a sure impressionistic gift for it. She was
always an immense favourite with women, who felt subconsciously
grateful to her for her wonderful forbearance. To have the power and
not to use it! To be so pretty, yet never _to take_ _anyone away_!--not

even coldly display her conquests. But this liking she did not, as a
rule, return in any decided fashion. She had dreadfully little to say
to the average woman, except to a few intimate friends, and frankly
preferred the society of the average man, although she had not as yet
developed a taste for coquetry, for which she had, however, many
natural gifts. She was much taken up by Bruce, by Archie and Dilly, and
was fond of losing herself in ideas and in books, and in various
artistic movements and fads in which her interest was cultivated and
perhaps inspired by Vincy. Vincy was her greatest friend and confidant.
He was really a great safety-valve, and she told him nearly every
thought.

Still, Archie was, so far, her greatest interest. He was a particularly
pretty boy, and she was justified in thinking him rather unusual. At
this period he spent a considerable amount of his leisure time not only
in longing to see real animals, but in inventing and drawing pictures
of non-existent ones--horrible creatures, or quaint creatures, for
which he found the strangest names. He told Dilly about them, but Dilly
was not his audience--she was rather his confidante and literary
adviser; or even sometimes his collaborator. His public consisted
principally of his mother. It was a convention that Edith should be
frightened, shocked and horrified at the creatures of his imagination,
while Dilly privately revelled in their success. Miss Townsend, the
governess, was rather coldly ignored in this matter. She had a way of
speaking of the animals with a smile, as a nice occupation to keep the
children quiet. She did not understand.

'Please, Madam, would you kindly go into the nursery; Master Archie
wishes you to come and hear about the golden--something he's just made
up like,' said Dilly's nurse with an expression of resignation.

Edith jumped up at once.

'Oh dear! Tell Master Archie I'm coming.'

She ran into the nursery and found Archie and Dilly both looking rather
excited; Archie, fairly self-controlled, with a paper in his han
d on
which was a rough sketch which he would not let her see, and hid behind
him.

'Mother,' Archie began in a low, solemn voice, rather slowly, 'the
golden quoribus is the most horrible animal, the most awful-looking
animal, you ever heard of in _your_ life!'

'Oh-h-h! How awful!' said Edith, beginning to shiver. 'Wait a
moment--let me sit down quietly and hear about it.'

She sat down by the fire and clasped her hands, looking at him with a
terrified expression which was part of the ritual.

Dilly giggled, and put her thumb in her mouth, watching the effect with
widely opened eyes.

'Much more awful than the gazeka, of course, I suppose?' Edith said
rather rashly.

'Much,' said Dilly.

'(Be quiet, Dilly!) Mother!' he was reproachful, 'what do you mean? The
gazeka? Why--the gazeka's nothing at all--it's a rotten little animal.
It doesn't count. Besides, it isn't real--it never was real. Gazeka,
indeed!'

'Oh, I beg your pardon,' said Edith repentantly; 'do go on.'

'No... the golden quoribus is far-ar-r-r-r more frightening even than
the jilbery. Do you remember how awful _that_ was? And much larger.'

'What! Worse than the jilbery! Oh, good gracious! How dreadful! What's
it like?'

'First of all--it's as long as from here to Brighton,' said Archie.

'A little longer,' said Dilly.

'(Shut up, miss!) As long. It's called the golden quoribus because it's
bright gold, except the bumps; and the bumps are green.'

'Bright green,' said Dilly.

'(Oh, will you hold your tongue, Dilly?) Green.'

'How terrible!... And what shape is it?'

'All pointed and sharp, and three-cornered.'

'Does it breathe fire?' asked Edith.

Archie smiled contemptuously.

'Breathe fire! Oh, Mother! Do you think it's a silly dragon in a fairy
story? Of course it doesn't. How can it breathe fire?'

'Sorry,' said Edith apologetically. 'Go on.'

'_But_, the peculiar thing about it, besides that it lives entirely on
muffins and mutton and the frightening part, I'm coming to now.' He
became emphatic, and spoke slowly. 'The golden quoribus has more c
laws
than any... other... animal... in the whole world!'

'Oh-h-h,' she shuddered.

'Yes,' said Archie solemnly. 'It has large claws coming out of its
head.'

'Its head! Good gracious!'

'It has claws here and claws there; claws coming out of the eyes; and
claws coming out of the ears; and claws coming out of its shoulders;
and claws coming out of the forehead!'

Edith shivered with fright and held up her hands in front of her eyes
to ward off the picture.

'And claws coming out of the mouth,' said Archie, coming a step nearer
to her and raising his voice.

Edith jumped.

'And claws coming out of the hands, and claws coming out of the feet!'

'Yes,' said Dilly, wildly and recklessly and jumping up and down, 'and
claws on the ceiling, and claws on the floor, and claws all over the
world!'

With one violent slap she was sent sprawling.

Shrieks, sobs and tears filled the quiet nursery.

'I know,' said Archie, when he had been persuaded to apologise, 'of
course I know a gentleman oughtn't to hit a lady, not even--I mean,
especially not if she's his little sister. But oh, Mother, ought a lady
to interrupt a story?'

When Edith told Vincy he entirely took Archie's side.

Suppose Sargent were painting a beautiful picture, and one of his
pupils, snatching the paint-brush from him, insisted on finishing it,
and spoiling it--how would he like it? Imagine a poet who had just
written a great poem, and been interrupted in reciting it by someone
who quickly finished it off all wrong! The author might be forgiven
under such circumstances if in his irritation he took a strong line. In
Vincy's opinion it served Dilly jolly well right. Young? Of course she
was young, but four (he said) was not a day too soon to begin to learn
to respect the work of the artist. Edith owned that Archie was not
easily exasperated and was as a rule very patient with the child. Bruce
took an entirely different view. He was quite gloomy about it and
feared that Archie showed every sign of growing up to be an Apache.

CHAPTER IV

The Mitchells

The Mitc
hells were, as Vincy had said, extremely hospitable; they had a
perfect mania for receiving; they practically lived for it, and the big
house at Hampstead, with its large garden covered in, and a sort of
studio built out, was scarcely ever without guests. When they didn't
have some sort of party they invariably went out.

Mitchell's great joy was to make his parties different from others by
some childish fantasy or other. He especially delighted in a surprise.
He often took the trouble (for instance) to have a telegram sent to
every one of his guests during the course of the evening. Each of these
wires contained some personal chaff or practical joke. At other times
he would give everyone little presents, concealed in some way.
Christmas didn't come once a year to the Mitchells; it seemed never to
go away. One was always surprised not to find a Christmas tree and
crackers. These entertainments, always splendidly done materially, and
curiously erratic socially, were sometimes extremely amusing; at
others, of course, a frost; it was rather a toss-up.

And the guests were, without exception, the most extraordinary mixture
in London. They included delightful people, absurd people, average
people; people who were smart and people who were dowdy, some who were
respectable and nothing else, some who were deplorable, others
beautiful, and many merely dull. There was never the slightest attempt
at any sort of harmonising, or of suitability; there was a great deal
of kindness to the hard-up, and a wild and extravagant delight in any
novelty. In fact, the Mitchells were everything except exclusive, and
as they were not guided by any sort of rule, they really lived, in St
John's Wood, superior to suburban or indeed any other restrictions.
They would ask the same guests to dinner time after time, six or seven
times in succession. They would invite cordially a person of no
attraction whatsoever whom they had only just met, and they would
behave with casual coolness to desirable acquaintances or favourite
friends whom they had 
known all their lives. However, there was no
doubt that their parties had got the name for being funny, and that was
quite enough. London people in every set are so desperate for something
out of the ordinary way, for variety and oddness, that the Mitchells
were frequently asked for invitations by most distinguished persons who
hoped, in their blase fatigue, to meet something new and queer.

For the real Londoner is a good deal of a child, and loves Punch and
Judy shows, and conjuring tricks (symbolically speaking)--and is also
often dreaming of the chance of meeting some spring novelty, in the way
of romance. Although the Mitchells were proud of these successes they
were as free from snobbishness as almost anyone could be. On the whole
Mrs Mitchell had a slight weakness for celebrities, while Mr Mitchell
preferred pretty women, or people who romped. It was merely from
carelessness that the Ottleys had never been asked before.

When Edith and Bruce found themselves in the large square
country-house-looking hall, with its oak beams and early English
fireplace, about twenty people had arrived, and as many more were
expected. A lively chatter had already begun; for each woman had been
offered on her arrival a basket from which she had to choose a brightly
 ribbon. These ribbons matched the rosettes presented in an
equally haphazard way to every man. As Vincy observed, it gave one the
rather ghastly impression that there was going to be a cotillion at
once, on sight, before dinner; which was a little frightening. In
reality it was merely so that the partners for the meal should be
chosen by chance. Mitchell thought this more fun than arranging guests;
but there was an element of gambling about it that made wary people
nervous. Everyone present would have cheated had it been possible. But
it was not.

Mrs Mitchell was a tiny brown-eyed creature, who looked absurdly young;
she was kind, sprightly, and rather like a grouse. Mitchell was a
jovial-looking man, with a high forehead, almost too much ease of
manner, and a tw
inkling eye.

The chief guests tonight consisted of Lord Rye, a middle-aged
suffraget, who was known for his habit of barking before he spoke and
for his wonderful ear for music--he could play all Richard, Oscar and
Johann Strauss's compositions by ear on the piano, and never mixed them
up; Aylmer Ross, the handsome barrister; Myra Mooney, who had been on
the stage; and an intelligent foreigner from the embassy, with a
decoration, a goat-like beard, and an Armenian accent. Mrs Mitchell
said he was the minister from some place with a name like Ruritania.
She had a vague memory. There was also a Mr Cricker, a very young man
of whom it was said that he could dance like Nijinsky, but never would;
and the rest were chiefly Foreign Office clerks (like Mitchell and
Bruce), more barristers and their wives, a soldier or two, some
undergraduates, a lady photographer, a few pretty girls, and vague
people. There were to be forty guests for dinner and a few more in the
evening.

Almost immediately on her arrival Edith noticed a tall, clean-shaven
man, with smooth fair hair, observant blue eyes, and a rather humorous
expression, and she instantly decided that she would try to will him to
take her to dinner. (Rather a superfluous effort of magnetism, since it
must have been settled already by fate and the ribbons.) It was obvious
from one quick glance that he shared the wish. To their absurdly great
mutual disappointment (a lot of ground was covered very quickly at the
Mitchells), their ribbons didn't match, and she was taken to dinner by
Captain Willis, who looked dull. Fortune, however, favoured her. On her
other side she found the man who looked amusing. He was introduced to
her across the table by Mrs Mitchell, with _empressement_, as Mr Aylmer
Ross.

Edith felt happy tonight; her spirits were raised by what she felt to
be an atmosphere _tiede_, as the French say; full of indulgence,
sympathetic, relaxing, in which either cleverness or stupidity could
float equally at its ease. The puerility of the silly little
arrangements
 to amuse removed all sense of ceremony. The note is always
struck by the hostess, and she was everything that was amiable, without
effort or affectation.

No-one was ever afraid of her.

Bruce's neighbour at dinner was the delicate, battered-looking
actress, in a Royal fringe and a tight bodice with short sleeves, who
had once been a celebrity, though no-one remembered for what. Miss Myra
Mooney, formerly a beauty, had known her days of success. She had been
the supreme performer of ladylike parts. She had been known as the very
quintessence of refinement. It was assumed when she first came out that
a duke would go to the devil for her in her youth, and that in her late
maturity she would tour the provinces with _The Three Musketeers_.
Neither of these prophecies had, however, been fulfilled. She still
occasionally took small middle-aged titled parts in repertoire
matinees. She was unable to help referring constantly to the hit she
made in _Peril_ at Manchester in 1887; nor could she ever resist
speaking of the young man who sent her red carnations every day of his
blighted existence for fifteen years; a pure romance, indeed, for, as
she owned, he never even wished to be introduced to her. She still
called him poor boy, oblivious of the fact that he was now sixty-eight,
and, according to the illustrated papers, spent his entire time in
giving away a numberless succession of daughters in brilliant marriage
at St George's, Hanover Square.

In this way Miss Mooney lived a good deal in the past, but she was not
unaware of the present, and was always particularly nice to people
generally regarded as bores. So she was never without plenty of
invitations. Mitchell had had formerly a slight _tendre_ for her, and
in his good nature pretended to think she had not altered a bit. She
was still refined _comme cela ne se fait plus_; it was practically no
longer possible to find such a perfect lady, even on the stage. As she
also had all the easy good nature of the artist, and made herself
extremely agreeable, Bruce was deligh
ted with her, and evidently
thought he had drawn a prize.

'I wondered,' Aylmer Ross said, 'whether this could possibly happen.
First I half hoped it might; then I gave it up in despair.'

'So did I,' said Edith; 'and yet I generally know. I've a touch of
second sight, I think--at dinner-parties.'

'Oh, well, I have second sight too--any amount; only it's always wrong.
However!...'

'Aren't the Mitchells dears?' said Edith.

'Oh, quite. Do you know them well?'

'Very well, indeed. But I've never seen them before.'

'Ah, I see. Well, now we've found our way here--broken the ice and that
sort of thing--we must often come and dine with them, mustn't we, Mrs
Ottley? Can't we come again next week?'

'Very sweet of you to ask us, I'm sure.'

'Not at all; very jolly of us to turn up. The boot is on the other leg,
or whatever the phrase is. By the way, I'm sure you know everything,
Mrs Ottley, tell me, did people ever wear only one boot at a time, do
you think, or how did this expression originate?'

'I wonder.'

Something in his suave manner of taking everything for granted seemed
to make them know each other almost too quickly, and gave her an odd
sort of self-consciousness. She turned to Captain Willis on her other
side.

'I say,' he said querulously, 'isn't this a bit off? We've got the same
 ribbons and you haven't said a word to me yet! Rather rot,
isn't it, what?'

'Oh, haven't I? I will now.'

Captain Willis lowered his voice to a confidential tone and said: 'Do
you know, what I always say is--live and let live and let it go at
that; what?'

'That's a dark saying,' said Edith.

'Have a burnt almond,' said Captain Willis inconsequently, as though it
would help her to understand. 'Yes, Mrs Ottley, that's what I always
say.... But people won't, you know--they won't--and there it is.' He
seemed resigned. 'Good chap, Mitchell, isn't he? Musical chairs, I
believe--that's what we're to play this evening; or bridge, whichever
we like. I shall go in for bridge. I'm not musical.'

'And which shall you do?' asked Aylmer of 
Edith. He had evidently been
listening.

'Neither.'

'We'll talk then, shall we? I can't play bridge either.... Mrs
Ottley--which is your husband? I didn't notice when you came in.'

'Over there, opposite; the left-hand corner.'

'Good-looking chap with the light moustache--next to Myra Mooney?'

'That's it,' she said. 'He seems to be enjoying himself. I'm glad he's
got Miss Mooney. He's lucky.'

'He is indeed,' said Aylmer.

'She's a wonderful-looking woman--like an old photograph, or someone in
a book,' said Edith.

'Do you care for books?'

'Oh, yes, rather. I've just been discovering Bourget. Fancy, I didn't
know about him! I've just read _Mensonges_ for the first time.'

'Oh yes. Rather a pompous chap, isn't he? But you could do worse than
read _Mensonges_ for the first time.'

'I _have_ done worse. I've been reading Rudyard Kipling for the last
time.'

'Really! Don't you like him? Why?'

'I feel all the time, somehow, as if he were calling me by my Christian
name without an introduction, or as if he wanted me to exchange hats
with him,' she said. 'He's so fearfully familiar with his readers.'

'But you think he keeps at a respectful distance from his characters?
However--why worry about books at all, Mrs Ottley? Flowers, lilies of
the field, and so forth, don't toil or spin; why should they belong to
libraries? I don't think you ever ought to read--except perhaps
sometimes a little poetry, or romance.... You see, that is what you
are, rather, isn't it?'

'Don't you care for books?' she answered, ignoring the compliment. 'I
should have thought you loved them, and knew everything about them. I'm
not sure that I know.'

'You know quite enough, believe me,' he answered earnestly. 'Oh, don't
be cultured--don't talk about Lloyd George! Don't take an intelligent
interest in the subjects of the day!'

'All right; I'll try not.'

She turned with a laugh to Captain Willis, who seemed very depressed.

'I say, you know,' he said complainingly, 'this is all very well. It's
all very well no doubt. But I only ask one thin
g--just one. Is this
cricket? I merely ask, you know. Just that--is it cricket; what?'

'It isn't meant to be. What's the matter?'

'Why, I'm simply fed up and broken-hearted, you know. Hardly two words
have I had with you tonight, Mrs Ottley.... I suppose that chap's
awfully amusing, what? I'm not amusing.... I know that.'

'Oh, don't say that. Indeed you are.' she consoled him.

'Am I though?'

'Well, you amuse _me_!'

'Right!' He laughed cheerily. He always filled up pauses with a laugh.

CHAPTER V

The Surprise

Certainly Mrs Mitchell on one side and Captain Willis on the other had
suffered neglect. But they seemed to become hardened to it towards the
end of dinner....

'I have a boy, too,' Aylmer remarked irrelevantly, 'rather a nice chap.
Just ten.'

Though only by the merest, slightest movement of an eyelash Edith could
not avoid showing her surprise. No-one ever had less the air of a
married man. Also, she was quite ridiculously disappointed. One can't
say why, but one doesn't talk to a married man quite in the same way or
so frankly as to a bachelor--if one is a married woman. She did not ask
about his wife, but said:

'Fancy! Boys are rather nice things to have about, aren't they?'

She was looking round the table, trying to divine which was Mrs Aylmer
Ross. No, she wasn't there. Edith felt sure of it. It was an
unaccountable satisfaction.

'Yes; he's all right. And now give me a detailed description of _your_
children.'

'I can't. I never could talk about them.'

'I see.... I should like to see them.... I saw you speak to Vincy. Dear
little fellow, isn't he?'

'He's a great friend of mine.'

'I'm tremendously devoted to him, too. He's what used to be called an
exquisite. And he _is_ exquisite; he has an exquisite mind. But, of
course, you know what a good sort he is.'

'Rather.'

'He seems rather to look at life than to act in it, doesn't he?'
continued Aylmer. 'He's a brilliant sort of spectator. Vincy thinks
that all the world's a stage, but _he's_ always in the front row of the
stalls. I never could
 be like that ... I always want to be right in the
thick of it, on in every scene, and always performing!'

'To an audience?' said Edith.

He smiled and went on.

'What's so jolly about him is that though he's so quiet, yet he's
genial; not chilly and reserved. He's frank, I mean--and confiding.
Without ever saying much. He expresses himself in his own way.'

'That's quite true.'

'And, after all, it's really only expression that makes things real.
'If you don't talk about a thing, it has never happened.''

'But it doesn't always follow that a thing has happened because you do
talk about it,' said Edith. 'Ah, Mrs Mitchell's going !'

She floated away.

He remained in a rather ecstatic state of absence of mind.

 * * * * *

Mrs Mitchell gladly told Edith all about Aylmer Ross, how clever he
was, how nice, how devoted to his little boy. He had married very
young, it seemed, and had lost his wife two years after. This was ten
years ago, and according to Mrs Mitchell he had never looked at another
woman since. Women love to simplify in this sentimental way.

'However,' she said consolingly, 'he's still quite young, under forty,
and he's sure to fall in love and marry again.'

'No doubt,' said Edith, wishing the first wife had remained alive. She
disliked the non-existent second one.

 * * * * *

Nearly all the men had now joined the ladies in the studio, with the
exception of Bruce and of Aylmer Ross. Mrs Mitchell had taken an
immense fancy to Edith and showed it by telling her all about a
wonderful little tailor who made coats and skirts better than Lucile
for next to nothing, and by introducing to her Lord Rye and the embassy
man, and Mr Cricker. Edith was sitting in a becoming corner under a
shaded light from which she could watch the door, when Vincy came up to
talk to her.

'You seemed to get on rather well at dinner,' he said.

'Yes; isn't Captain Willis a dear?'

'Oh, simply sweet. So bright and clever. I was sure you'd like him,
Edith.'

Captain Willis here came up and said, a shade more jovially than he had

spoken at dinner, with his laugh:

'Well, you know, Mrs Ottley, what I always say is--live and let live
and let it go at that; what? But they never _do_, you know! They
won't--and there it is!'

Edith now did a thing she had never done in her life before and which
was entirely unlike her. She tried her utmost to retain the group round
her, and to hold their attention. For a reason of which she was hardly
conscious, she wanted Aylmer Ross to see her surrounded. The minister
from the place with a name like Ruritania was so immensely bowled over
that he was already murmuring in a low voice (almost a hiss, as they
say in melodrama): 'Vous etes chez vous, quand? Dites un mot, un mot
seulement, et je me precipiterai a vos pieds_,' while at the same time,
in her other ear, Lord Rye was explaining (to her pretended intense
interest) how he could play the whole of _Elektra, The Chocolate
Soldier_ and _Nightbirds_ by ear without a single mistake. ('Perfectly
sound!' grumbled Captain Willis, 'but why do it?') Vincy was listening,
enjoying himself. Bruce came in at last, evidently engaged in an
absorbed and intimate conversation with Aylmer Ross. They seemed so
much interested in their talk that they went to the other end of the
room and sat down there together. Aylmer gave her one glance only.

Edith was unreasonably annoyed. What on earth could he and Bruce find
to talk about? At length, growing tired of her position, she got up,
and walked across the room to look at a picture on the wall, turning
her graceful back to the room.

Bruce had now at last left his companion, but still Aylmer Ross did not
go and speak to her, though he was sitting alone.

Musical chairs began in the studio. Someone was playing 'Baby,
look-a-here,' stopping suddenly in the middle to shouts of laughter and
shrieks from the romping players. In the drawing-room some of the
people were playing bridge. How dull the rest of the evening was! Just
before the party practically broke up, Edith had an opportunity of
saying as she passed Aylmer:

'I thought 
we were going to have a talk instead of playing games?'

'I saw you were occupied,' he answered ceremoniously. 'I didn't
like--to interrupt.'

She laughed. 'Is this a jealous scene, Mr Ross?'

'I wonder,' he said, smiling, 'and if so, whose. Well, I hope to see
you again soon.'

'_What_ a success your charming wife has had tonight,' said Mrs
Mitchell to Bruce, as they took leave. 'Everyone is quite wild about
her. How pretty she is! You _must_ be proud of her.'

They were nearly the last. Mr Cricker, who had firmly refused the whole
evening, in spite of abject entreaties, to dance like Nijinsky,
suddenly relented when everyone had forgotten all about it, and was
leaping alone in the studio, while Lord Rye, always a great lingerer,
was playing Richard Strauss to himself on the baby Grand, and smoking a
huge cigar.

'Edith,' said Bruce solemnly, as they drove away, 'I've made a friend
tonight. There was one really charming man there--he took an immense
fancy to me.'

'Oh--who was that?'

'Who was that?' he mimicked her, but quite good-naturedly. 'How stupid
women are in some things! Why, Aylmer Ross, the chap who sat next to
you at dinner! I suppose you didn't appreciate him. Very clever, very
interesting. He was anxious to know several things which I was glad to
be in a position to tell him. Yes--an awfully good sort. I asked him to
dine at my club one day, to go on with our conversation.'

'Oh, did you?'

'Yes. Why shouldn't I? However, it seems from what he said that he
thinks the Carlton's nicer for a talk, so I'm going to ask him there
instead. You can come too, dear. He won't mind; it won't prevent our
talking.'

'Oh, are we going to give a dinner at the Carlton?'

'I wish you wouldn't oppose me, Edith. Once in a way! Of course I
shall. Our flat's too small to give a decent dinner. He's one of the
nicest chaps I've ever met.'

'Well, do you want me to write tomorrow morning then, dear?'

'Er--no--I have asked him already.'

'Oh, really--which day?'

'Well, I suggested next Thursday--but he thought tomorrow wo
uld be
better; he's engaged for every other day. Now don't go and say you're
engaged tomorrow. If you are, you'll have to chuck it!'

'Oh no; I'm not engaged.'

Mentally rearranging her evening dress, Edith drove home thoughtfully.
She was attracted and did not know why, and for the first time hoped
she had made an impression. It had been a long evening, and her
headache, she said, necessitated solitude and darkness at once.

'All right. I've got a much worse headache--gout, I think, but never
mind about me. Don't be anxious, dear! I say, that Miss Mooney is a
very charming woman. She took rather a fancy to me, Edith. Er--you
might ask her to dinner too, if you like, to make a fourth!'

'But--really! Ought we to snatch all the Mitchells' friends the first
time, Bruce?'

'Why, of course, it's only courteous. It's all right. One must return
their hospitality.'

CHAPTER VI

The Visit

The following afternoon Edith was standing by the piano in her
condensed white drawing-room, trying over a song, which she was
accompanying with one hand, when to her surprise the maid announced 'Mr
Aylmer Ross.' It was a warm day, and though there was a fire the
windows were open, letting in the scent of the mauve and pink hyacinths
in the little window-boxes. She thought as she came forward to meet him
that he seemed entirely different from last night. Her first impression
was that he was too big for the room, her second that he was very
handsome, and also a little agitated.

'I really hardly know how to apologise, Mrs Ottley. I oughtn't to have
turned up in this cool way. But your husband has kindly asked me to
dine with you tonight, and I wasn't sure of the time. I thought I'd
come and ask you.' He waited a minute. 'Of course, if I hadn't been so
fortunate as to find you in, I should just have left a note.' He looked
round the room.

 * * * * *

Obviously it was quite unnecessary for him to have called; he could
have sent the note that he had brought with him. She was flattered. She
thought that she liked his voice and the flash of
 his white teeth when
he smiled.

'Oh, I'm glad I'm at home,' she said, in a gentle way that put him at
his ease, and yet at an immense distance. 'I felt in the mood to stop
at home and play the piano today. I'm delighted to see you.' They sat
down by the fire. 'It's at eight tonight. Shall we have tea?'

'Oh no, thanks; isn't it too early? I sha'n't keep you a moment. Thanks
very much.... You were playing something when I came in. I wish you'd
play it to me over again.'

 * * * * *

Nine women out of ten would have refused, saying they knew nothing of
music, or that they were out of practice, or that they never played
except for their own amusement, or something of the kind; especially if
they took no pride whatever in that accomplishment. But Edith went back
to the piano at once, and went on trying over the song that she didn't
know, without making any excuse for the faltering notes.

'That's charming,' he said. 'Thanks. Tosti, of course.'

She came back to the fireplace. 'Of course. We had great fun last
night, didn't we?'

'Oh, _I_ enjoyed myself immensely; part of the time at least.'

'But after dinner you were rather horrid, Mr Ross. You wouldn't come
and talk to me, would you?'

'Wouldn't I? I was afraid. Tell me, do I seem many years older since
last night?' he asked.

'I don't see any difference. Why?'

'Because I've lived months--almost years--since I saw you last. Time
doesn't go by hours, does it?... What a charming little room this is.
It suits you. There's hardly anything in it, but everything is right.'

'I don't like to have many things in a room,' said Edith, holding out
her delicate hands to the fire. 'It makes me nervous. I have gradually
accustomed Bruce to my idea by removing one thing at a time
--photographs, pictures, horrid old wedding presents, all the
little things people have. They suggest too many different trains of
thought. They worry me. He's getting used to it now. He says, soon
there'll be nothing left but a couple of chairs and a bookcase!'

'And how right! I've had rather the sa
me idea in my house, but I
couldn't keep it up. It's different for a man alone; things seem to
accumulate; especially pictures. I know such a lot of artists. I'm very
unfortunate in that respect.... I really feel I oughtn't to have turned
up like this, Mrs Ottley.'

'Why not?'

'You're very kind.... Excuse my country manners, but how nice your
husband is. He was very kind to me.'

'He liked _you_ very much, too.'

'He seems charming,' he repeated, then said with a change of tone and
with his occasional impulsive brusqueness, 'I wonder--does he ever jar
on you in any way?'

'Oh no. Never. He couldn't. He amuses me,' Edith replied softly.

'Oh, does he?... If I had the opportunity I wonder if I should _amuse_
you,' he spoke thoughtfully.

'No; I don't think you would at all,' said Edith, looking him straight
in the face.

'That's quite fair,' he laughed, and seemed rather pleased. 'You mean I
should bore you to death! Do forgive me, Mrs Ottley. Let's go on with
our talk of last night.... I feel it's rather like the Palace of Truth
here; I don't know why. There must be something in the atmosphere--I
seem to find it difficult not to think aloud--Vincy, now--do you see
much of Vincy?'

'Oh yes; he comes here most days, or we talk on the telephone.'

'I see; he's your confidant, and you're his. Dear Vincy. By the way, he
asked me last night to go to a tea-party at his flat next week. He was
going to ask one or two other kindred spirits--as I think they're
called. To see something--some collection. Including you, of course?'

'I shall certainly go,' said Edith, 'whether he asks me or not.'

Aylmer seemed to be trying to leave. He nearly got up once or twice and
sat down again.

'Well, I shall see you tonight,' he said. 'At eight.'

'Yes.'

'What shall you wear, Mrs Ottley?'

'Oh, I thought, perhaps, my mauve chiffon? What do you advise?' she
smiled.

'Not what you wore last night?'

'Oh no.'

'It was very jolly. I liked it. Er--red, wasn't it?'

'Oh no! It was pink!' she answered.

Then there was an extraordinary pause,
 in which neither of them seemed
able to think of anything to say. There was a curious sort of vibration
in the air.

'Isn't it getting quite springy?' said Edith, as she glanced at the
window. 'It's one of those sort of warm days that seem to have got
mixed up by mistake with the winter.'

'Very,' was his reply, which was not very relevant.

Another pause was beginning.

'Mr Vincy,' announced the servant.

He was received with enthusiasm, and Aylmer Ross now recovered his ease
and soon went away.

'Edith!' said Vincy, in a reproving tone. '_Really_! How _very_ soon!'

'He came to know what time we dine. He was just passing.'

'Oh, yes. He would want to know. He lives in Jermyn Street. I
suppose Knightsbridge is on his way to there.'

'From where?' she asked.

'From here,' said Vincy.

'What happened after we left?' said Edith. 'I saw the Cricker man
beginning to dance with hardly anyone looking at him.'

'Isn't his imitation of Nijinsky wonderful?' asked Vincy.

'Simply marvellous! I thought he was imitating George Grossmith. Do you
know, I love the Mitchells, Vincy. It's really great fun there. Fancy,
Bruce seems so delighted with Aylmer Ross and Miss Mooney that he
insisted on their both dining with us tonight.'

'He seemed rather carried away, I thought. There's a fascination about
Aylmer. There are so many things he's not,' said Vincy.

'Tell me some of them.'

'Well, for one thing, he's not fatuous, though he's so good-looking.
He's not a lady-killing sort of person or anything else tedious.'

She was delighted at this especially.

'If he took a fancy to a person--well, it might be rather serious, if
you take my meaning,' said Vincy.

'How sweet of him! So unusual. Do you like Myra Mooney?'

'Me? Oh, rather; I'm devoted to her. She's a delightful type. Get her
on to the subject of the red carnations. She's splendid about them....
She received them every day at breakfast-time for fifteen years.
Another jolly thing about Aylmer is that he has none of that awful
old-fashioned modernness, thank goodness!'

'Ah,
 I noticed that.'

'I suppose he wasn't brilliant today. He was too thrilled. But, do be
just a teeny bit careful, Edith dear, because when he is at all he's
very much so. Do you see?'

'What a lot you seem to think of one little visit, Vincy! After all, it
was only one.'

'There hasn't been time yet for many more, has there, Edith dear? He
could hardly call twice the same day, on the first day, too.... Yes, I
come over quite queer and you might have knocked me down with a
feather, in a manner of speaking, when I clapped eyes on him setting
here.'

Edith liked Vincy to talk in his favourite Cockney strain. It
contrasted pleasantly with his soft, even voice and _raffine_
appearance.

'Here's Bruce,' she said.

Bruce came in carrying an enormous basket of gilded straw. It was
filled with white heather, violets, lilies, jonquils, gardenias and
mimosa. The handle was trimmed with mauve ribbon.

'Oh, Bruce! How angelic of you!'

'Don't be in such a hurry, dear. These are not from me. They arrived
just at the same time that I did. Brought by a commissionaire. There
was hardly room for it in the lift.'

Edith looked quickly at the card. It bore the name of the minister of
the place with a name like Ruritania.

'What cheek!' exclaimed Bruce, who was really flattered. 'What infernal
impertinence. Upon my word I've more than half a mind to go and tell
him what I think of him--straight from the shoulder. What's the
address?'

'Grosvenor Square.'

'Well, I don't care. I shall go straight to the embassy,' said Bruce.
'No, I sha'n't. I'll send them back and write him a line--tell him that
Englishwomen are not in the habit of accepting presents from
undesirable aliens.... I consider it a great liberty. Aren't I right,
Vincy?'

'Quite. But perhaps he means no harm, Bruce. I daresay it's the custom
in the place with the funny name. You see, you never know, in a place
like that.'

'Then you don't think I ought to take it up?'

'I don't want them. It's a very oppressive basket,' Edith said.

'How like you, Edith! I thought you were
 fond of flowers.'

'So I am, but I like one at a time. This is too miscellaneous and
crowded.'

'Some women are never satisfied. It's very rude and ungrateful to the
poor old man, who meant to be nice, no doubt, and to show his respect
for Englishwomen. I think you ought to write and thank him,' said
Bruce. 'And let me see the letter before it goes.'

CHAPTER VII

Coup de Foudre

When Aylmer Ross got back to the little brown house in Jermyn Street he
went to his library, and took from a certain drawer an ivory miniature
framed in black. He looked at it for some time. It had a sweet,
old-fashioned face, with a very high forehead, blue eyes, and dark hair
arranged in two festoons of plaits, turned up at the sides. It
represented his mother in the early sixties and he thought it was like
Edith. He had a great devotion and cult for the memory of his mother.
When he was charmed with a woman he always imagined her to be like his
mother.

He had never thought this about his wife People had said how
extraordinarily Aylmer must have been in love to have married that
uninteresting girl, no-one in particular, not pretty and a little
second-rate. As a matter of fact the marriage had happened entirely by
accident. It had occurred through a misunderstanding during a game of
consequences in a country house. She was terribly literal. Having taken
some joke of his seriously, she had sent him a touchingly coy letter
saying she was overwhelmed at his offer (feeling she was hardly worthy
to be his wife) and must think it over. He did not like to hurt her
feelings by explaining, and when she relented and accepted him he
couldn't bear to tell her the truth. He was absurdly tender-hearted,
and he thought that, after all, it didn't matter so very much. The
little house left him by his mother needed a mistress; he would
probably marry somebody or other, anyhow; and she seemed such a
harmless little thing. It would please her so much! When the hurried
marriage had come to a pathetic end by her early death everyone was
tragic about it exc
ept Aylmer. All his friends declared he was
heart-broken and lonely and would never marry again. He had indeed been
shocked and grieved at her death, but only for her--not at being left
alone. That part, was a relief. The poor little late Mrs Aylmer Ross
had turned out a terrible mistake. She had said the wrong thing from
morning till night, and, combining a prim, refined manner with a vulgar
point of view, had been in every way dreadfully impossible. He had
really been patience and unselfishness itself to her, but he had
suffered. The fact was, he had never even liked her. That was the
reason he had not married again.

But he was devoted to his boy in a quiet way. He was the sort of man
who is adored by children, animals, servants and women. Tall, strong
and handsome, with intelligence beyond the average, yet with nothing
alarming about him, good-humoured about trifles, jealous in matters of
love--perhaps that is, after all, the type women really like best. It
is sheer nonsense to say that women enjoy being tyrannised over. No
doubt there are some who would rather be bullied than ignored. But the
hectoring man is, with few exceptions, secretly detested. In so far as
one can generalise (always a dangerous thing to do) it may be said that
women like best a kind, clever man who can be always trusted; and
occasionally (if necessary) deceived.

Aylmer hardly ever got angry except in an argument about ideas. Yet his
feelings were violent; he was impulsive, and under his suave and
easy-going manner emotional. He was certainly good-looking, but had he
not been he would have pleased all the same. He seemed to radiate
warmth, life, a certain careless good-humour. To be near him was like
warming one's hands at a warm fire. Superficially susceptible and
inclined to be experimental he had not the instinct of the collector
and was devoid of fatuousness. But he could have had more genuine
successes than all the Don Juans and Romeos and Fausts who ever climbed
rope ladders. Besides his physical attraction he inspired a feeling 
of
reliance. Women felt safe with him; he would never treat anyone badly.
He inspired that kind of trust enormously in men also, and his house
was constantly filled with people asking his advice and begging him to
do things--sometimes not very easy ones. He was always being left
guardian to young persons who would never require one, and said himself
he had become almost a professional trustee.

As Aylmer was generous and very extravagant in a way of his own (though
he cared nothing for show), he really worked hard at the bar to add to
his already large income. He always wanted a great deal of money. He
required ease, margin and elbow-room. He had no special hobbies, but he
needed luxury in general of a kind, and especially the luxury of
getting things in a hurry, his theory being that everything comes to
the man who won't wait. He was not above detesting little material
hardships. He was not the sort of man, for instance, even in his
youngest days, who would go by omnibus to the gallery to the opera, to
hear a favourite singer or a special performance; not that he had the
faintest tinge of snobbishness, but simply because such trifling
drawbacks irritated him, and spoilt his pleasure.

Impressionistic as he was in life, on the other hand, curiously,
Aylmer's real taste in art and decoration was Pre-Raphaelite;
delicate, detailed and meticulous almost to preciousness. He often had
delightful things in his house, but never for long. He had no pleasure
in property; valuable possessions worried him, and after any amount of
trouble to get some object of art he would often give it away the next
week. For he really liked money only for freedom and ease. The general
look of the house was, consequently, distinguished, sincere and
extremely comfortable. It was neither hackneyed nor bizarre, and, while
it contained some interesting things, had no superfluities.

Aylmer had been spoilt as a boy and was still wilful and a little
impatient. For instance he could never wait even for a boy-messenger,
but always sent his notes by
 taxi to wait for an answer. And now he
wanted something in a hurry, and was very much afraid he would never
get it.

Aylmer was, as I have said, often a little susceptible. This time he
felt completely bowled over. He had only seen her twice. That made no
difference.

The truth was--it sounds romantic, but is really scientific, all
romance being, perhaps, based on science--that Edith's appearance
corresponded in every particular with an ideal that had grown up with
him. Whether he had seen some picture as a child that had left a vague
and lasting impression, or whatever the reason was, the moment he saw
her he felt, with a curious mental sensation, as of something that fell
into its place with a click ('Ca y est!'), that she realised some
half-forgotten dream. In fact, it was a rare and genuine case of _coup
de foudre_. Had she been a girl he would have proposed to her the next
day, and they might quite possibly have married in a month, and lived
happily ever after. These things occasionally happen. But she was
married already.

Had she been a fool, or a bore, a silly little idiot or a fisher of
men, a social sham who prattled of duchesses or a strenuous feminine
politician who babbled of votes; a Christian Scientist bent on
converting, an adventuress without adventures (the worst kind), a
mind-healer or a body-snatcher, a hockey-player or even a lady
novelist, it would have been exactly the same; whatever she had been,
mentally or morally, he would undoubtedly have fallen in love with her
physically, at first sight. But it was very much worse than that. He
found her delightful, and clever; he was certain she was an angel. She
was married to Ottley. Ottley was all right.... Rather an ass ...
rather ridiculous; apparently in every way but one.

 * * * * *

So absurdly hard hit was Aylmer that it seemed to him as if to see her
again as soon as possible was already the sole object in his life. Did
she like him? Intuitively he felt that during his little visit his
intense feeling had radiated, and not displeased--pe
rhaps a little
impressed--her. He could easily, he knew, form a friendship with them;
arrange to see her often. He was going to meet her tonight, through his
own arrangement. He would get them to come and dine with him soon--no,
the next day.

What was the good?

Well, where was the harm?

Aylmer had about the same code of morals as the best of his numerous
friends in Bohemia, in clubland and in social London. He was no more
scrupulous on most subjects than the ordinary man of his own class.
Still, _he had been married himself_. That made an immense difference,
for he was positively capable of seeing (and with sympathy) from the
husband's point of view. Even now, indifferent as he had been to his
own wife, and after ten years, it would have caused him pain and fury
had he found out that she had ever tried to play him false. Of course,
cases varied. He knew that if Edith had been free his one thought would
have been to marry her. Had she been different, and differently placed,
he would have blindly tried for anything he could get, in any possible
way. But, as she was?... He felt convinced he could never succeed in
making her care for him; there was not the slightest chance of it. And,
supposing even that he could? And here came in the delicacy and scruple
of the man who had been married himself. He thought he wouldn't even
wish to spoil, by the vulgarity of compromising, or by the shadow of a
secret, the serenity of her face, the gay prettiness of that life. No,
he wouldn't if he could. And yet how exciting it would be to rouse her
from that cool composure. She was rather enigmatic. But he thought she
could be roused. And she was so clever. How well she would carry it
off! How she would never bore a man! And he suddenly imagined a day
with her in the country.... Then he thought that his imagination was
flying on far too fast. He decided not to be a hopeless fool, but just
to go ahead, and talk to her, and get to know her; not to think too
much about her. She needn't even know how he felt. To idolise her from
a dis
tance would be quite delightful enough. When a passion is not
realised, he thought, it fades away, or becomes ideal worship
--Dante--Petrarch--that sort of thing! It could never fade away
in this case, he was sure. How pretty she was, how lovely her mouth was
when she smiled! She had no prejudices, apparently; no affectations;
how she played and sang that song again when he asked her! With what a
delightful sense of humour she had dealt with him, and also with Bruce,
at the Mitchells. Ottley must be a little difficult sometimes. She had
read and thought; she had the same tastes as he. He wondered if she
would have liked that thing in _The Academy_, on Gardens, that he had
just read. He began looking for it. He thought he would send it to her,
asking her opinion; then he would get an answer, and see her
handwriting. You don't know a woman until you have had a letter from
her.

But no--what a fool he would look! Besides he was going to see her
tonight. It was about time to get ready.... Knowing subconsciously that
he had made some slight favourable impression--at any rate that he
hadn't repelled or bored her--he dressed with all the anxiety, joy and
thrills of excitement of a boy of twenty; and no boy of twenty can ever
feel these things as keenly or half as elaborately as a man nearly
twice that age, since all the added experiences, disillusions,
practice, knowledge and life of the additional years help to form a
part of the same emotion, making it infinitely deeper, and all the
stronger because so much more _averti_ and conscious of itself.

He seemed so nervous while dressing that Soames, the valet, to whom he
was a hero, ventured respectfully to hope there was nothing wrong.

'No. I'm all right,' said Aylmer. 'I'm never ill. I think, Soames, I
shall probably die of middle age.'

He went out laughing, leaving the valet smiling coldly out of
politeness.

 * * * * *

Soames never understood any kind of jest. He took himself and everyone
else seriously. But he already knew perfectly well that his master had
fallen 
in love last night, and he disapproved very strongly. He thought
all that sort of thing ought to be put a stop to.

CHAPTER VIII

Archie's Essay

'Mrs Ottley,' said Miss Townsend,' do you mind looking at this essay of
Archie's? I really don't know what to think of it. I think it shows
talent, except the spelling. But it's _very_ naughty of him to have
written what is at the end.'

Edith took the paper and read:

'TRAYS OF CHARACTER

trays of character will always show threw how ever much you may polish
it up trays of character will always show threw the grane of the wood.

A burd will keep on singing because he wants to and they can't help
doing what it wants this is instinkt. and it is the same with trays of
charicter. having thus shown my theory that trays of carocter will
always show threw in spite of all trubble and in any circemstances
whatever I will conclude Archibald Bruce Ottley please t.o.'

On the other side of the paper was written very neatly, still in
Archie's writing:

'3 LINDEN MANSIONS, CADOGAN SQUARE, KNIGHTSBRIDGE. _Second Floor_

1. Mr Bruce Ottley (FO) 2. Mrs Bruce Ottley 3. Master Archibald Bruce
Ottley 4. Little _beast_ 5. Mary Johnson housemaid 6. Miss Thrupp Cook
7. Marie maid

8. Dorothy Margaret Miss Townsend governess 9. Ellen Maud Parrot
nurse.'

'Do you see?' said Miss Townsend. 'It's his way of slyly calling poor
Dilly a beast, because he's angry with her. Isn't it a shame? What
shall I do?' Both of them laughed and enjoyed it.

'Archie, what is the meaning of this? Why did you make this census of
your home?' Edith asked him gently.

'Why, I didn't make senses of my home; I just wrote down who lived
here.'

Edith looked at him reproachfully.

'Well, I didn't call Dilly a beast. I haven't broken Miss Townsend's
rules. She made a new rule I wasn't to call her a beast before
breakfast--'

'What, you're allowed to call her these awful names after breakfast?'

'No. She made a rule before breakfast I wasn't to call Dilly a beast,
and I haven't. How did you know it meant her anyway? It mig
ht have
meant somebody else.'

'That's prevaricating; it's mean--not like you, Archie.'

'Well, I never called her a beast. No-one can say I did. And besides,
anybody would have called her a beast after how she went on.'

'What are you angry with the child for?'

'Oh, she bothers so. The moment I imitate the man with the German
accent she begins to cry. She says she doesn't like me to do it. She
says she can't bear me to. Then she goes and tells Miss Townsend I
slapped her, and Miss Townsend blames me.'

'Then you shouldn't have slapped her; it was horrid of you; you ought
to remember she's a little girl and weaker than you.'

'I did remember...'

'Oh, Archie!'

'Well, I'll make it up if she begs my pardon; not unless she does I
sha'n't,' said Archie magnanimously.

'I shall certainly not allow her to do anything of the kind.'

At this moment Dilly came in, with her finger in her tiny mouth, and
went up to Archie, drawling with a pout, and in a whining voice:

'I didn't mean to.'

Archie beamed at once.

'That's all right, Dilly,' he said forgivingly.

Then he turned to his mother.

'Mother, have you got that paper?'

'Yes, I have indeed!'

'Well, cross out--that, and put in Aspasia Matilda Ottley. Sorry,
Dilly!' He kissed her, and they ran off together hand in hand; looking
like cherubs, and laughing musically.

CHAPTER IX

Aylmer

At the Carlton Aylmer had easily persuaded Bruce and Edith to dine with
him next day, although they were engaged to the elder Mrs Ottley
already. He said he expected two or three friends, and he convinced
them they must come too. It is only in London that people meet for the
first time at a friend's house, and then, if they take to each other,
practically live together for weeks after. No matter what social
engagements they may happen to have, these are all thrown aside for the
new friend. London people, with all their correctness, are really more
unconventional than any other people in the world. For instance, in
Paris such a thing could never happen in any kind of _monde_, unless,
p
erhaps, it were among artists and Bohemians; and even then it would be
their great object to prove to one another that they were not wanting
in distractions and were very much in demand; the lady, especially,
would make the man wait for an opportunity of seeing her again, from
calculation, to make herself seem of more value. Such second-rate
solicitudes would never even occur to Edith. But she had a scruple
about throwing over old Mrs Ottley.

 * * * * *

'Won't your mother be disappointed?' Edith asked.

'My dear Edith, you can safely leave that to me. Of course she'll be
disappointed, but you can go round and see her, and speak to her nicely
and tell her that after all we can't come because we've got another
engagement.'

'And am I to tell her it's a subsequent one? Otherwise she'll wonder we
didn't mention it before.'

'Don't be in a hurry, dear. Don't rush things; remember... she's my
mother. Perhaps to you, Edith, it seems a rather old-fashioned idea,
and I daresay you think it's rot, but to me there's something very
sacred about the idea of a mother.' He lit a cigarette and looked in
the glass.

'Yes, dear. Then, don't you think we really ought to have kept our
promise to dine with her? She'll probably be looking forward to it. I
daresay she's asked one or two people she thinks we like, to meet us.'

'Circumstances alter cases, Edith. If it comes to that, Aylmer Ross has
got two or three people coming to dine with him whom he thinks we might
like. He said so himself. That's why he's asked us.'

'Yes, but he can't have asked them on purpose, Bruce, because, you see,
we didn't know him on Thursday.'

'Well, why should he have asked them on purpose? _How_ you argue! _How_
you go on! It really seems to me you're getting absurdly exacting and
touchy, Edith dear. I believe all those flowers from the embassy have
positively turned your head. _Why_ should he have asked them on
purpose. You admit yourself that we didn't even know the man last
Thursday, and yet you expect--' Bruce stopped. He had got into a slight
ta
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "The Printing House of the United States." |
 | |
 | GEO. F. NESBITT &CO., |
 | |
 | General JOB PRINTERS, |
 | BLANK BOOK Manufacturers, |
 | STATIONERS, Wholesale and Retail, |
 | LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers, |
 | COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers, |
 | CARD Manufacturers, |
 | ENVELOPE Manufacturers, |
 | FINE CUT and COLOR Printers. |
 | |
 | 163,165,167, and 169 PEARL ST., |
 | |
 | 73, 75, 77, and 79 PINE ST., New-York. |
 | |
 | ADVANTAGES--All on the same premises, and under the |
 | immediate supervision of the proprietors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO'S MONTHLY. |
 | |
 | THE FIVE NUMBERS FOR APRIL, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Will be ready May 2d. Price, Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | SUPPLIED BY THE |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and cheaper |
 | than any other Pen in the market. Special attention is |
 | called to the following grades, as being better suited for |
 | business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | We recommend for bank and office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON &. CO., |
 | |
 | _Sole Agents for United States_ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: Vol. 1 No. 5]

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, APRIL 30, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW-YORK.

 * * * * *

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | _CONANT'S PATENT BINDERS for "Punchinello," to preserve the |
 | pape
r for binding, will be sent, post-paid, on receipt of |
 | One Dollar, by "Punchinello Publishing Company," 83 Nassau |
 | Street, New-York City._ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PRANG'S CHROMOS are celebrated for their close resemblance |
 | to Oil Paintings. Sold in All Stores throughout the World. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PRANG'S WEEKLY BULLETIN OF CHROMOS.--"Easter Morning" |
 | "Family Scene in Pompeii" "Whittier's Birthplace," |
 | Illustrated Catalogue sent, on receipt of stamp, by L. PRANG |
 | & CO., Boston. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO |
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON, |
 | |
 | Room No. 4, |
 | |
 | 83 NASSAU STREET. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | The Greatest Horse Book ever Published. |
 | |
 | HIRAM WOODRUFF |
 | |
 | ON THE |
 | |
 | TROTTING HORSE OF AMERICA! |
 | |
 | _How to Train, and Drive Him_. |
 | |
 | With Reminiscences of the Trotting Turf. A handsome 12mo, |
 | with a splendid steel-plate portrait of Hiram Woodruff. |
 | Price, extra cloth, $2.25. |
 | |
 | The New-York Tribune says: "_This is a Masterly Treatise by |
 | the Master of his Profession_--the ripened product of forty |
 | years' experience in Handling, Training, Riding, and Driving |
 | the Trotting Horse. There is no book like It in any language |
 | on the subject of which it treats." |
 | |
 | BONNER says in the _Ledger_, "It is a book for which every |
 | man who owns a horse ought to subscribe. The information |
 | which it contains is worth ten times its cost." For sale by |
 | all booksellers, or single copies sent post-paid on receipt |
 | of price. |
 | |
 | Agents wanted. J. B. FORD & CO., |
 | |
 | Printing-House Square, New-York, |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Thomas J. Rayner & Co;,
 |
 | |
 | 29 LIBERTY STREET, |
 | |
 | New-York, |
 | |
 | MANUFACTURERS OF THE |
 | |
 | _Finest Cigars made in the United States_. |
 | |
 | All sizes and styles. Prices very moderate. Samples sent to |
 | any responsible house. Also importers of the |
 | |
 | _"FUSBOS" BRAND_, |
 | |
 | Equal in quality to the best of the Havana market, and from |
 | ten to twenty per cent cheaper. |
 | |
 | Restaurant, Bar, Hotel, and Saloon trade will save money by |
 | calling at |
 | |
 | 29 LIBERTY STREET. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Notice to Ladies. |
 | |
 | DIBBLEE, |
 | |
 | Of 854 Broadway, |
 | |
 | Has just received a large assortment of all the latest |
 | styles of |
 | |
 | Chignons, Chatelaines, etc., |
 | |
 | FROM PARIS, |
 | |
 | Comprising the following beautiful varieties: |
 | |
 | La Coquette, La Plenitude, Le Bouquet, |
 | |
 | La Sirene, L'Imperatrice, etc., |
 | |
 | At prices varying from $2 upward. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | No. 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | With a large and varied experience in the management and |
 | publication of a paper of the class herewith submitted, and |
 | with the still more positive advantage of an Ample Capital |
 | to justify the undertaking, the |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO. |
 | |
 | Presents to the public for approval, the |
 | |
 | NEW ILLUSTRATED HUMOROUS AND SATIRICAL |
 | |
 | WEEKLY PAPER, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO, |
 | |
 | The first number of which will be Issued under date of April |
 | 2, 1870, and thereafter weekly. |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO will be _National_, and not _local_; and will |
 | endeavor to become a household word in all parts of the |
 | country; and to that end has secured a |
 | |
 | VALUABLE CORPS OF CONTRIBUTORS |
 | |
 | in various sections of the Union, while its columns 
will |
 | always be open to appropriate first-class literary and |
 | artistic talent. |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO will be entirely original; humorous and witty, |
 | without vulgarity, and satirical without malice. It will be |
 | printed on a superior tinted paper of sixteen pages, size 13 |
 | by 9, and will be for sale by all respectable newsdealers |
 | who have the judgment to know a good thing when they see it, |
 | or by subscription from this office. |
 | |
 | The Artistic department will be in charge of Henry L. |
 | Stephens, whose celebrated cartoons in VANITY FAIR placed |
 | him in the front rank of humorous artists, assisted by |
 | leading artists in their respective specialties. |
 | |
 | The management of the paper will be in the hands of WILLIAM |
 | A. STEPHENS, with whom is associated CHARLES DAWSON SHANLY, |
 | both of whom were identified with VANITY FAIR. |
 | |
 | ORIGINAL ARTICLES, |
 | |
 | Suitable for the paper, and Original Designs, or suggestive |
 | ideas sketches for illustrations, upon the topics of the |
 | day, are always acceptable, and will be paid for liberally. |
 | |
 | Rejected communications can not be returned, unless |
 | postage-stamps are inclosed. |
 | |
 | Terms: |
 | |
 | One copy, per year, in advance $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, ten cents. |
 | |
 | A specimen copy will be mailed free upon the receipt of ten |
 | cents. |
 | |
 | One copy, with the Riverside Magazine, or any other magazine |
 | or paper, price, $2.50, for 5.50 |
 | |
 | One copy, with any magazine or paper, price, $4, for 7.00 |
 | |
 | All communications, remittances, etc., to be addressed to |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO, |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 | P. O. Box, 2783. |
 | |
 | _(For terms to Clubs, see 16th page.)_ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Mercantile Library, |
 | |
 | Clinton Hall, Astor Place, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 | This is now the largest circulating Library In America, the |
 | number of volum
es on its shelves being 114,000. About 1000 |
 | volumes are added each month; and very large purchases are |
 | made of all new and popular works. |
 | |
 | Books are delivered at members' residences for five cents |
 | each delivery. |
 | |
 | TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP: |
 | |
 | TO CLERKS, |
 | |
 | $1 Initiation, $3 Annual Dues. |
 | |
 | TO OTHERS, $5 a year. |
 | |
 | SUBSCRIPTIONS TAKEN FOR SIX MONTHS. |
 | |
 | BRANCH OFFICES |
 | |
 | AT |
 | |
 | NO. 76 CEDAR STREET, NEW-YORK, |
 | |
 | AND AT |
 | |
 | Yonkers, Norwalk, Stamford, and Elizabeth. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | AMERICAN |
 | |
 | BUTTONHOLE, OVERSEAMING, |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | SEWING-MACHINE CO., |
 | |
 | 572 and 574 Broadway, New-York. |
 | |
 | This great combination machine is the last and greatest |
 | improvement on all former machines, making, in addition to |
 | all the work done on best, Lock-Stitch machines, beautiful |
 | |
 | BUTTON AND EYELET HOLES: |
 | |
 | in all fabrics. |
 | |
 | Machine, with finely finished |
 | |
 | OILED WALNUT TABLE AND COVER |
 | |
 | complete, $75. Same machine, without the buttonhole parts, |
 | $60, This last is beyond all question the simplest, easiest |
 | to manage and to keep in order, of any machine in the |
 | market. Machines warranted, and full instruction given to |
 | purchasers. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY SPEAR |
 | |
 | STATIONER, PRINTER, |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | BLANK BOOK MANUFACTURER. |
 | |
 | ACCOUNT BOOKS |
 | |
 | MADE TO ORDER. |
 | |
 | PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. |
 | |
 | 82 Wall Street, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: THE WARNING OF THE BELLE

LOOK OUT FOR THE TRAIN]

 * * * * *

PATRIOTIC ADORATION.

A TALE OF PHILADELPHIA.

 People of the Quaker City,
 How the world must stand aghast
 At your wondrous veneration
 For those relics of the past,
 Kept in such precise condition,
 Fostered wit
h such tender care--
 Don't, oh! don't the Philadelphians
 Love old Independence Square?

 Splendid are its walks and grass-plots
 Where the bootblacks base-ball play,
 And its seats resembling toad-stools,
 On which loafers lounge all day,
 Waiting for their luck, or gazing
 At the office of the Mayor--
 Don't, oh! don't the Philadelphians
 Love old Independence Square?

 Then, behold the fine old State-house
 Cleanly kept inside and out,
 Where the faithful office-holders
 Squirt tobacco-juice about:
 Placards highly ornamental
 Decorate its outward wall--
 Don't, oh! don't the Philadelphians
 Love old Independence Hall?

 O! ye gods and little fishes!
 Could bill-sticker be so vile
 As to paste up nasty posters
 On the sacred classic pile?
 Greece and Rome yet have their relics,
 But what are they? very small.
 Never half so venerated
 As old Independence Hall.

 * * * * *

PERIODICAL LITERATURE.

PUNCHINELLO has hitherto refrained from criticising the periodicals of
the day, from the mistaken idea that superlative excellence was not
expected in every number of every daily or weekly journal in the land.
He did not know that, if every such journal was not edited so as to suit
the comprehension of all classes of cursory critics, it should be
unqualifiedly condemned. Supposing that a painter should not condemn a
paper for publishing a musical article beyond his comprehension, and
that an architect ought not to get in a rage because he finds in his
favorite journal a paper on beavers which makes him feel insignificant,
PUNCHINELLO has generally looked around upon his fellow-journalists, and
thought them very good fellows, who generally published very good
papers. He did not find superlative excellence in any of their issues,
but then he did not look for it. He might as well pretend to look for
that in the journalists themselves, or in society at large. But he has
lately learned, from the critics of the period, that he ought to look
for it, and that it is the proper thing nowadays to pitch into every
journal which 
does not, in every part, please every body, whether they
be smart or dull; those quick of appreciation, or those slow gentlemen
who always come in with their congratulations upon the birth of a joke
at the time its funeral is taking place. And so, PUNCHINELLO will do as
others do, and will occasionally view, from the loop-hole in his
curtain, the successes and failures of his neighbors, and will give his
patrons the benefit of his observations.

The first thing he notices to-day is, that the _Evening Snail_ of last
night is not so good as it was a fortnight ago; or, let us think a
bit--it may have been a good number at the beginning of last month that
he was thinking of; at all events, this last issue is inferior. The
matter on the first page is not printed in nearly as good type as the
original periodicals had it, and while the letters in the heading are
quite fair, it is very noticeable that the I's are very defective, and
there is no C in it. The "Gleanings" are excellent, and it would be
advisable to have more of them--if indeed such a thing were possible in
this case. The spider-work inside shows no acquaintance with the
writings of BACH or GLIDDON, and there is nothing about the Spectrum
Analysis in any part of the paper. Besides, the paper is too stiff and
rattles too much, and PUNCHINELLO could never abide the color of the
editor's pantaloons. Why will not people dress and write so that every
body can admire and understand them. Especially in regard to witty
things and breastpins They ought to be loud, overpowering, and so
glaring that people could not help seeing them. And they ought to be a
little cheap, too, or average people won't comprehend them. In both
cases paste (and scissors) pays better than diamonds. The reports of
private parties in the _Snail_ are, however, very good, and if it would
confine its original matter to such subjects, it could not fail to
succeed.

 * * * * *

A Query for Physicians.

Are people's tastes apt to become Vichy-ated by the excessive use of
certain mineral waters?

 * 
* * * *

"Behold, how Pleasant a Thing 't is," etc.

Boston has a couple of clergymen who have fallen out upon matters not
precisely theological. In the summer, the Rev. Mr. MURRAY leaves his
sheep, to shoot deer by torchlight in the Adirondacks. This the Rev. Mr.
ALGER, in addressing the Suppression of Cruelty to Animals Society,
denounces as extremely wicked. From all which Mr. PUNCHINELLO, taking up
his discourse, infers,

_First_. That it is a great deal more wicked to shoot deer by torchlight
than by daylight.

_Secondly_. That the Rev. MURRAY and the Rev. ALGER are of different
religious persuasions.

_Thirdly and lastly_. That the Rev. Mr. ALGER doesn't love venison.

P. S. Persons desiring to present Mr. PUNCHINELLO with a fine haunch,
(in the season,) may shoot it by daylight, moonlight, torchlight, or by
a Drummond light, as most convenient.

 * * * * *

We are indebted to Mr. SARONY for a number of brilliant photographs of
celebrities of the day. Lovely woman is well represented the batch, with
all the characters of which PUNCHINELLO hopes to present his readers,
from time to time.

 * * * * *

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New-York.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: ALL ABOARD FOR HOLLAND!]

PUNCHINELLO understands that a performance is soon to take place at the
Academy of Music, for the benefit of GEORGE HOLLAND, the well-known and
ever-green "veteran" of "the stage." It pleases PUNCHINELLO to know that
a combination of talent and beauty is to be brought together for so
worthy a purpose. Seventy-four years ago, when GEORGE HOLLAND was a
small child, PUNCHINELLO used to dandle him upon his knee. Hardly four
years have passed since PUNCHINELLO was convulsed by the _Tony Lumpkin_
of HOLLAND. He distinctly remembers, too, administering hot whiskey
punch to little boy HOLLAND with a tea-spoon, which may in some measure
account for the Spirit subsequentl
y infused by the capital comedian into
the numerous bits of character presented by him. Considering these
facts, it is manifestly an incumbent duty on the part of PUNCHINELLO to
request the earnest attention of his readers to the subject of GEORGE
HOLLAND'S benefit, all particulars concerning which will be given due
time through the public press. It used to be said, long ago, that "the
Dutch have taken Holland," Well, let our own modern Knickerbockers
improve upon that notion, by taking HOLLAND'S tickets. Remember how,
in the early settlement of the country, it was Holland that made
New-York, and see that New-York now returns the compliment, and makes
HOLLAND. Convivial songsters frequently remind us that--

 --"a Hollander's draught should potent be,
 And deep as the rolling Zuyder Zee."

Mind this, all ye Hollanders who would give your support to our HOLLAND.
Let your drafts be potent, your cheeks heavy, your attendance punctual.
Make the affair complete; so that when, here-after, a comparison is
sought for something that has been a sued people will say of it--"As big
as that Bumper of HOLLAND'S."

 * * * * *

ASTRONOMICAL CONVERSATIONS.

(BY A FATHER AND DAUGHTER RESIDING ON THE PLANET VENUS.)

No. I.

FATHER (_to_ DAUGHTER, _who is looking through a telescope_.) Yes HELENE,
that is the Planet Tellus, or Earth. The darker streaks are land; the
bright spots, water. We begin with a low power, which shows only the
masses; presently you will have the pleasure of discriminating not only
rivers and chains of mountains, but cities--single houses--even Human
Beings! Yes, you shall this very night read page of PUNCHINELLO, a paper
so bright that every word appears surrounded by a halo!

DAUGHTER. O father! do that _now_. How delightful, to actually read the
works of these singular creature's, and become familiar with their
extraordinary ideas! Were the scintillations you spoke of the other
night, that were seen all over the Western Continent, the result of the
flashing of these radiant pages?

F. Undoubtedly, my child;
 they began with the first issue of the paper,
and have since regularly increased in brightness, just as It has.

D. It really seems as though Earth would answer for a Moon, by and by, at
this rate!

F. You are quite right, HELENE; it will. Or say, rather, a Sun. For you
will observe that it is a _warm_ light; not cool, as reflected light
always is. It is Original.

D. Well, this shows that PUNCHINELLO must have some Heart, as well as
Head. Come, put on your highest power now, and let us seem to pay good
old Tellus a visit!

[_The indulgent Father complies, and, is at some pains to adjust the
focus_.]

F. Now, dear! take a good look.

D. (_Looking intently_.) Oh! how splendid--how splendid! _Do_ see the
beautiful things in those Shop Windows! It must be the Spring Season
there! _Do_ see those lovely lumps on the backs of those creatures'
heads! What place is it, Father?

F. That? It's New-York; and the street is the famous Broadway.

D. O dear! how I _would_ like to go shopping there, this minute!--for I
see it is afternoon in that quarter. Is there no way of getting
there?(!!!)

F. (_Laughing heartily_.) Well, well, HELENE! That's pretty good, for
the daughter of an astronomer! Do you know that at this precise moment
you are Forty-five Million, Six Hundred and Fifty-four Thousand, Four
Hundred and Ninety-one Miles and a half from those Muslins! I'll tell
you, Sis, what _could_ be done: Drop a line to the Editor of
PUNCHINELLO, and tell him what you want. He'll get it, some way.

D. That I will, instantly! [_Turns to her portfolio, while her father
turns to the telescope_.]

"DEAR MR. EDITOR: Pardon the seeming _boldness_ of a _stranger:_ you are
no _stranger to me!_ Long, _long_ have I deceived that _good man_, my
father, by _pretending_ to know _nothing_ of the Earth, or of his
_instrument!_ Many and _many_ a night, _unknown to him_, have I gone to
the _Telescope_, to satisfy the _restless craving_ I feel to know more
of _your Planet_, and of a _person of your sex_ whom I have _often_
beheld, and watched with _
eagerness_ as he came and went. How
_thrilling_ the thought, that he cannot even _know of my existence_, and
that we are _forever separated!_ This, good and _dear_ Editor, is my one
Thought, my one great Agony.

"It has occurred to me that, in this _dreadful_ situation--my Passion
being sufficiently Hopeless, as any one may see--you might at least
afford me some slight _alleviation_, by undertaking to let Him know of
the _interest_ he excites in this far-off star! Let me describe my
charmer, so that you will be able to identify him. He is of fair size,
with a rolling gait and a smiling countenance, has light hair and
complexion, wears often a White Hat, (on the back of his head--where
Thoughtful men always place the hat, I've been told by observers,) and
now and then carelessly leaves one leg of his trowsers at the top of his
boot. I have often seen him, with a bundle of papers in his pocket,
entering a large building with the words "_Tribune_ Office" over the
door--and I _adore_ him! O excellent Editor! tell him this, I _implore_
you! Be kind to your distant and _love-lorn_ friend,

HELENE."

F. What did you say, Helene?

D. I was saying that I wished to look a little longer at the fashions in
Broadway.

F. Well, well--I believe the Fashions are all that these women think of!
There--look away! I presume they have changed considerably since you
looked before! When do you wish to begin your lessons in Astronomy?

D. Next week. Father; let me see: we will say, next week--Thursday.

F. Very well; I shall remind you.

D. (_who is determined to have the last word, any way_.) Very well.

 * * * * *

Beach's Soliloquy on entering his Pneumatic Chamber.

"TU-BE or not tu-be."

 * * * * *

Reflection by a Tallow-chandler.

Though a man be the Mould of fashion, yet he cannot light himself to bed
by the Dip in his back.

 * * * * *

PLAYS AND SHOWS.

[Illustration: 'M']

_MEN AND ACRES,_ the new comedy at WALLACK'S, is one of the best of
TAYLOR'S pieces, and a decided improvement upon the carpenter work of
BOUCICAULT. It ha
s been rechristened by Mr. WALLACK, and its former
name--_Old Men and New Acres, or New Aches and Old Manors,_ or something
else of that sort--has been conveniently shortened. If it does not
convince us that the author has improved since he first began to write
plays, it certainly reminds us that there is such a thing as _Progress_.
In the latter play, Mr. J.W. WALLACK was a civil engineer. In the
present drama, he is an uncivil tradesman. Both appeal to the levelling
tendencies of the age; and in each, the author has done his "level
best"--as Mr. GRANT WHITE would say--to flatter the Family Circle at the
expense of the Boxes.

The cast includes a Vague Baronet and his Managing Wife, their Slangy
Daughter, their Unpleasant Neighbor and his wife and daughter, an
Unintelligible Dutchman, an Innocuous Youth, a Disagreeable Lawyer, and
the Merchant Prince. This is the sort of way in which they conduct
themselves,

_Act_ 1. _Disagreeable Lawyer to Vague Baronet:_ "You are ruined, and
your estate is mortgaged to a Merchant Prince. What do you intend to
do?"

_Vague Baronet._ "I will ask my wife what I think about it."

_Enter Managing Wife._ "Ruined, are we? Allow me to remark,
Fiddlesticks! Get the Merchant to take our third-story hall-bedroom for
a week, and I'll soon clear off the mortgage."

_Enter Slangy Daughter._ "O ma! there was such a precious guy at the
ball last night, and I had no end of a lark with him. Good gracious!
here comes the duffer himself."

_Enter Merchant Prince. (Aside.)_ "So here's the Vague Baronet and his
wife. And there's the slangy girl I fell in love with. Nice lot they
are!" (_To Managing Wife._) "Madam, there is nothing, so grand as the
majesty of trade. Your rank and blood are all gammon. We Merchant
Princes are the only people fit to live. However, I'll condescend to
speak to you."

_Managing Wife. (Aside.)_ "How noble! What a gentlemanly person he
really is!" _(To Merchant Prince.)_ "Sir, I bid you welcome. Here is my
daughter, who was just praising your beauty and accomplishments. I
 leave
you to entertain her." (_Exeunt Baronet, Wife, and Lawyer_.)

_Merchant Prince (placing his chair next to Slangy Daughter's, and
leaning his elbow on her.)_ "There is nothing like trade. We tradesmen
alone are great. We despise the whole lot of clean and idle aristocrats.
I keep a Gin Palace in Liverpool. Does your bloated aristocracy do half
as much for suffering humanity?"

_Slangy Daughter._ "Speak on, speak ever thus, O Noble Being! It's
awfully jolly!"

_Curtain falls, and Baker wakes up to lead his orchestra through the
mazes of "Shoo Fly."_

_Appreciative Lady._ "Isn't it nice? Miss HENRIQUES'S dress is perfectly
beautiful, and it sounds so cunning to hear her talk slang."

_Second Appreciative Lady._ "How handsome ROCKWELL looks! Just like a
real baronet, my dear!"

_Other Appreciative Ladies._ "The dresses at WALLACK'S are always
perfectly exquisite. I mean to have my next dress made with a green silk
fichu, a moire antique bertha, and little point lace peplums and
gussets, just like Miss MESTAYER'S. Won't it be sweet?"

_All the Counter-Jumpers in the Theatre._ "JIM WALLACK'S the boy! Don't
he talk up to those aristocratic snobs, though?"

_Act 2. Enter Unpleasant Neighbor and Unintelligible German. The former
says,_ "You're sure there's an iron mine on the Baronet's land?"

_Unintelligible German._ "Ya! Das ist um-um-um."

_Enter Merchant Prince and Slangy Daughter. Exeunt the other fellows._

_Merchant Prince._ "There is nothing like the grandeur of trade; and yet
we tradesmen are not proud. See! I offer to marry you."

_Slangy daughter._ "I love you wildly! _(Aside.)_ I do hope he won't
rumple my hair."

_Merchant Prince._ "Come to my arrums! The majesty of trade is so
infinitely above any thing else"--_and so forth._

_Enter Managing Wife._ "Take her, noble Merchant, and be happy
_(Aside.)_ This settles the affair of the mortgage." _(To Daughter)_
"Come, darling, we'll go and tell your father." _(They go.)_

_Enter Unpleasant Neighbor._ "Here's a telegram for you. No bad news, I
hope?"

_Merc
hant Prince._ "I am ruined unless you lend me L40,000. Do it, and I
will assign to you the mortgage on the baronet's property. The majesty
of trade is something which"--

_Unpleasant Neighbor._ "Here it is." _(Aside.)_ "Now I'll get possession
of the estate and the iron-mine."

_Enter Managing Wife._ "Ruined, are you? Of course you can't have my
daughter now."

_Merchant Prince._ "I resign her. We tradesmen are infinitely greater
than you aristocrats."

_Curtain falls, Baker wakes up. "Shoo Fly" by the Orchestra, and remarks
on dress by the ladies as before. Counter-jumpers go out to drink to the
majesty of trade, having grown perceptibly taller since the play began._

_Act 3. Unprincipled Neighbor to Unintelligible Dutchman._ "Have you got
the analysis of the iron ore?"

_Unintelligible Dutchman._ "Ya! Das its um-um-um."

_Unprincipled Neighbor._ "All right! Now I'll foreclose the mortgage,
and will be richer than ever."

_Enter Vague Baronet, and Wife and Daughter, and Lawyer. To them
collectively remarks the Unprincipled Neighbor,_ "The mortgage is due.
As you can't pay, you've got to move out."

_Disagreeable Lawyer._ "Not much! Here's an analysis of iron ore found
on our land. We raised money on the mine, and are ready to pay off the
mortgage."

_Enter Merchant Prince._ "Here's an analysis of the iron ore. I told
them all about it. We tradesmen are great, but we will sometimes help
even a wretched aristocrat."

_Slangy Daughter._ "Here's an analysis of the iron ore. Now I will marry
my noble Merchant, and make him rich again; for there's dead loads of
iron on the Governor's land, you bet!"

_They all produce analyses of the ore, and the play itself being o'er,
the curtain falls._

_Exasperated critic, who has sent for twelve seats, and has been
politely refused._ "I'd like to abuse it, if there was a chance; but
there isn't. The play is really good, and I can't find much fault with
the acting. However, I'll pitch into STODDARD for swearing, which his
'Unprincipled Neighbor' does to an unnecessary extent, and
 I'll say that
JIM WALLACK is too old and gouty to play the 'Merchant Prince,' and
doesn't quite forget that he used to play in the Bowery."

_Every body else._ "Did you ever see a play better acted? And did you
ever see actresses better dressed?"

And PUNCHINELLO is constrained to answer the latter question with an
emphatic No! As to the acting, it might be improved were Mr. STODDARD to
play the character for which he is cast, instead of insisting upon
playing nothing but STODDARD. But to all the rest of the actors, not
forgetting Mr. RINGGOLD, who plays the insignificant part of the
"Innocuous Youth," PUNCHINELLO is pleased to accord his gracious
approval.

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

A Balmy Idea.

According to Miss ANTHONY, the crying evil with women is that they will
blubber; but it must be remembered that out of this blubber they make
oil to pour into our conjugal wounds.

 * * * * *

A Suit for Damages.

Any clothes in a storm.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE POLITICAL MILL-ENNIUM.]

 * * * * *

HINTS UPON HIGH ART.

Observant visitors to the National Academy of Design will allow that a
tendency to greatness is beginning to develop itself in certain
directions among our artists. In landscape some of them are almost
immense. The works of PORPHYRO warm the walls with rays of splendor, or
cool the lampooned sight-line with pearly gradations, as the case may
be. MANDRAKE renders feelingly the summer uplands and groves, and
SILVERBARK the melancholy autumnal woods. BYTHESEA infuses with
sentiment even the blue wreaths of smoke that curl up from the distant
ridge against which loom the concentrated lovers that he selects for his
idyllic romances. Gushingly he does his work, but thoroughly; and there
are other flowers than lackadaisies to be discerned in his herbage.
GUSTIBUS blows gently the foliage aside, and gives us glimpses through
it of rural contentment in connection with a mill, or some other
interesting object beyond. The pencil of SAGEGREEN imbues canvases, both
large and small, with infinite variety and forc
e; and it is to
SKETCHMORE that the great lakes owe their remarkable reputation as
pieces of water with poems growing out of their broad lily-pads. Very
tender are the pastoral banks and brooksides of LEAFHOPPER. ELFINLOCKS
takes up his pencil, and lo! a hazy, mazy, lazy, dreamy vista where it
has touched. But hold! Our critical Incubus has taken the bit between
her teeth, and is beginning to run away with us. Stop that; and let our
readers enumerate the other first American landscape painters for
themselves.

Not so strong are our artists in domestic incidents and compositions of
life and character. We have STUNNINGTON, to be sure, whose traits of
American expression, whether white or colored, are most true to the
life; and there's BARLEYMOW, who will twist you an eclogue from the tail
of his foreground pig. Others there be; but space has its limits, and we
forbear.

As for our portrait limners, their name is Legion, and that
comprehensive name must go for all. Like BENVENUTO CELLINI they shall be
known for their jugs; and their transmission to posterity on the heads
of families is a thing to be reckoned on as sure.

For the higher flights of art the American painter is by no manner of
means endowed with the wings of his native eagle--wings that agitate the
cerulean vault, spattering it with splashes of creamy cloud-spray, and
churning into butter the stretches of the Milky Way. History has indeed
been illustrated by American art, but has it been enriched? The
WASHINGTONS and the WEBSTERS, the CLAYS and the LINCOLNS, have had their
memories dreadfully lampooned on canvas. Allegory does not inspire the
great American pencil. Tall art there is, and enough of it "at that;"
but of high art we have none to speak of, except the canvases that are
placed over doorways in the galleries of the Academy, and, in the sense
of elevation, may consequently be spoken of as high. All this is wrong.
Alas! that we should write it. Would that we could right it! And to
think of the musty subjects that our historical and allegorical m
en
select. Ho! young men--away with your CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS; relegate
your METAMORA to his proper limbo; let WASHINGTON alone; and LINCOLN;
and OSCEOLA the Savage; and POCAHONTAS, and all the rest. Leave them
alone; and, taking fresh subjects, dip your brushes in brains, as old
OPIE or somebody else said, and go to work with a will. No fresh
subjects to be had, you say? Bosh! absurd interlocutor that you are.
Here's a bundle of 'em ready cut to hand. We charge you no money for
them, and you may take your choice.

SUBJECTS FOR WORKS OF HIGH ART.

PROVIDENCE tempering the wind to the shorn lamb.

ABSENCE OF MIND marking a box of paper shirt-collars with indelible ink.

MILTON "going it blind."

The late Mr. WILLIAM COBBETT teaching his sons to shave with cold water.

ST. PATRICK emptying the snakes out of his boots.

TRUE LOVE never running smooth.

NO MAN acting _Hero_ to his _valet de chambre_.

ROBERT BONNER taking DEXTER by the forelock with one hand, and TIME with
the other.

Subjects like these might be worked out to advantage. The field in which
they are to be found is almost unlimited; and they possess abundantly
the two grand essentials to success in art at the present time, as well
as in literature--novelty and sensation.

 * * * * *

H.G. and Terpsichore.

AMONG the strange revelations about _Tribune_ people elicited during the
MCFARLAND trial, was the bit of gossip about Mr. GREELEY going to
Saratoga to "trip the light fantastic toe." That Mr. GREELEY'S toe is
"fantastic," every body who has ever inspected his "Congress gaiters"
must know, but as to its lightness we have our doubts. "What I know
about dancing" would be a capital subject for H.G. to handle, and we
hope that he will take Steps for doing it.

 * * * * *

Sweeny's New Charter.

 How doth the busy Peter B.,
 Improve each shining hour!
 From nettled young Democracy,
 He plucks the safety-flower.

 * * * * *

From Rome.

The POPE is said to be "out of Spirits." Why doesn't he come to
New-York, where he can get plenty of the article, either i
n the sense of
the Tap or in that of the Rap?

 * * * * *

"He who was Born to be Hanged," etc.

On one of the mornings of the MCFARLAND trial, a very importunate person
attempted to force his way into the court-room, which, as he was told,
was already crowded "to suffocation." To this he retorted that he
"wasn't born to be suffocated." That's in substance what the late JACK
REYNOLDS said, and _he_ was mistaken.

 * * * * *

The Difference.

Rice riots are reported as raging in all the ports of Japan. Rye was the
principal mover in the famous conscription riots of New-York.

 * * * * *

A Celestial Idea.

No wonder the Chinese theatre in San Francisco is a success, considering
how skilful the actors must be in catching the Cue.

 * * * * *

JUMBLES.

Did you ever hear of my friend BOOTSBY? "No." That's rather queer. I
see--you've been out of town. BOOTSBY is a man of standing--of decided
standing, I may say. He stands, in fact, a great deal. The heavy
standing round he does is enormous when the limited capacity of a single
mortal is taken in view. BOOTSBY stands round among every class of
people, and especially of politicians and potationers. He stands round
to talk, to hear, and especially to drink. The power of the man in this
last matter is wonderful, and the puzzle is, that his standing (and
perpendicularity) is not perceptibly affected. Of course there are times
when BOOTSBY'S standing is not so good. In so slippery a place as Wall
Street, it is found to be less certain; while in a crowd on Broadway,
waiting for a bus, it cannot be said to maintain a very remarkable
firmness. But as a whole, and as the world goes, BOOTSBY is a man of
standing. In the altitude of six feet ten, he may be called a man of
high standing. He feels proud of the fact. "Is it not better to be a
mountain than a mole?" he often asks in a proudly sneering manner of his
neighbor PUGGS, who is about as far up in the world as the top of a
yard-stick. It is very true that size is not quality, and a seven-footer
may be no better than a three
-footer; but it is observed that a Short
Man is rarely any thing else. His stature is his measure throughout. My
own impression of myself is, that I don't care to be short; but if the
alternative were forced upon me, I should choose that of person rather
than of purse. BOOTSBY does not care much about money, and he carries
very little. Some people are like BOOTSBY, but most people are not. The
ladies, it is true, never, or rarely, want money. Like newspapers and
club-houses, they are self-supporting. In fact they surround themselves
with supporters which stay tightly. Mrs. TODD is peculiar in her wants
pecuniary. She, good soul, never wants (or keeps) money long, but she
doesn't want it _little_. She prefers it like onions, in a large bunch,
and strong. The reason why most women do not want money is because they
have no use for it. They never dress; they never wear jewelry; silks and
satins have no charms in their eyes; laces, ribbons, shawls never tempt.
To exist and walk upright in simpleness and quiet is the sum of their
desires. Dear creatures! how is it that they never want?

My neighbor, Mr. DROWSE, desires to know where you get all your funny
things for PUNCHINELLO? He knows they are there, does Mr. DROWSE; for he
gets my copy of the penny postman, and he keeps it, too. It is the only
good taste my neighbor has displayed of late years. I tell Mr. DROWSE
that you make your fun. He further asks, Where? I tell him in the
attic--up there where they keep the salt. He desires to know the size of
attic. Of course he has never seen your noble, capacious, alabaster
forehead, else he would perceive the source of those scintillations of
light and warmth which radiate throughout the universe every Saturday
for only ten cents. He is curious also to know about the salt, and
doesn't comprehend how or where you use it. He used to use it when a boy
in catching birds by putting the briny compound on the tails of the
same, and _that_ he used to call "fun alive;" but he don't see it--the
salt--about PUNCHINELLO. I suspect Mr.
 DROWSE doesn't see the sellers,
(certainly he avoids them when PUNCHINELLO is offered, much to my
mortification, and one dime to my cost,) and so is not likely to discern
the source of the fun. I merely informed Mr. DROWSE that the editor was
very tall, very handsome, with very black skin and rosy hair, (at which
he opened his eyes with astonishment, and asked if I meant so; at which
I said, "Yes, I guess so,") and that he laughed out of his nose, eyes,
head, and hands, as well as his mouth. DROWSE wants to see the editor
very much. He has seen men with black skins and hearts, (for he used to
know lots of politicians;) but wants to put his vision on some "rosy
hair"--and when he does, no doubt his gaze will be fixed. It is healthy
sometimes to have the gaze fixed; and often, like sauce-pans and
sermons, it has to be fixed. When Mr. DROWSE calls at 83, please show
him in Parlor 6 with the Brussels, fresco-work, and lace curtains.

April is a model month. So serene, steady, clear, and balmy. Nothing
but blue sky, gentle zephyrs, kissing breezes, genial suns by day and
sparkling stars by night. PUNCHINELLO no doubt likes sparkling
stars--stars of magnitude--stars that show what they are. PUNCHINELLO
perhaps goes to NIBLO'S, and not only sees plenty stars, but plenty of
them. But of April. It is called "fickle;" but that's a slander. "Every
thing by turns and nothing long"--that is a libel on which a suit could
be hung. The same vile falsehood is cruelly uttered of some women, when
every body knows, or should know, that these same women are nothing of
the sort. Who ever knew a fickle woman?

Where in history is there record of such an Impossibility? Fickle--that
implies a change of mind. What woman ever changed her mind any more than
her hands? Nonsense, avaunt!--banished be slander! April is _not_
fickle--woman is _not_ fickle. As one is evenly beautiful, divinely
serene, bewitchingly winning, so is the other sunny, cerulean, balmy,
paradisiacal. April for ever--after that the rest of the calendar.

Does PUNCHINELL
O believe in the Woman Movement? TODD does. He believes
woman should move as much as man; and he regards her movement in such
numbers to the great West as full of hope (and husbands) for the sex.
Mrs. TODD has not as yet been irresistibly seized by the movement; but
if TIMOTHY knows himself, he longs for the day when the seizer may come.
Although TODD--who is the writer of this epistle--says it, who perhaps
shouldn't, lest the shaft of egotism be hurled mercilessly at him, he
does unhesitatingly say that to aid this movement he would make the
greatest of sacrifices. He is willing to sacrifice his wife and other
female relations upon the sacred altar of the movement, and contribute
liberally to the expense thereof. He is quite willing they should
vote--early and often, if need be; but he wishes to see the movement go
westward like the Star of Empire--westward _via_ cheerful Chicago. TODD
trusts PUNCHINELLO will espouse this movement; for if it does, it--the
movement, no less than PUNCHINELLO--will go straight onward and upward;
but not by the route known as the Spout.

Mucilage is a good thing. It is now extensively used in Church, State,
and Society. We use it largely at the Veneerfront Avenue Church, of
which Rev. Dr. ALEXANDER PLASTERWELL is pastor. Of course, Mr.
PUNCHINELLO, you know that distinguished church, and have no doubt often
listened to the distinguished Dr. PLASTERWELL. He is a kind man, has a
high forehead, a Roman (Burgundy) nose, and a sweet, soft head--I should
say heart. He has--great and good man--the largest faith in mucilage. He
often makes it a text, and he sticks to it, he does--does Dr.
PLASTERWELL. Nothing like mucilage, PUNCHINELLO. It is the hope of the
human race, and the salvation of woman. It is the Philosopher's Stone in
solution; the essence and link which connects and cements all that is
great, good, and lovely, in the past, present, and future. At least,
such is the humble opinion of

TIMOTHY TODD.

 * * * * *

HINTS TO CAR CONDUCTORS.

When standing in Printing House Square, yo
ur destination being Grand
Street Perry or Bleecker Street, if a stranger asks whether you are
going to Harlem, nod, as it is considered improper to answer in the
negative. If he finds out the mistake, you can plead deafness.

When called upon to stop, never attempt to comply. There are several
reasons why you should not. In the first place, if you did stop, it
would show that you have no will of your own, and since the passage of
the Fifteenth Amendment, _all_ men are equal in this country.

You may stop about two blocks from the place named, just to please
yourself and prove your independence; but take particular care to start
the car when the passenger is half off the steps. If there is a young
surgeon in the neighborhood, you can enter into an arrangement to break
arms and legs in this way with impunity, have the maimed "carried into
the surgery," and share the fees with the operator. Occasional cases of
manslaughter may take place; but don't mind that, as coroners' juries in
New-York will return verdicts of "death from natural causes." Besides
this, remember that you have a vote, and that both coroners and judges
are dependent upon the people. When a lame old gentleman hails you,
beckon him furiously to come on, but be sure, at the same time, to urge
the driver to greater speed.

It is no part of your business to have change, so never give any, but
drive on: people should provide for and look after their own business
and that is none of yours.

Always drive through the centre of a target company or funeral
procession, never minding whether you kill one or more, and then abuse
the captain or the undertaker for his stupidity.

By the adoption of these essential rules, and by adding a good deal of
incivility, you will soon reach the top of the wheel of your profession
and in due time have a testimonial presented to you by an admiring and
grateful public.

 * * * * *

Out in the Cold.

Commissioner Tweed proposes a new outside Bureau of the Department of
Public Works, for late-Commissioner MCLEAN. He is to be Su
perintendent
of Refrigerators.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS.

ENGRAVED BY SPECIAL PERMISSION FOR PUNCHINELLO, FROM THE ORIGINAL
PAINTING, BY MILES STANDISH, IN THE COLLECTION OF METHUSELAH PILGRIM,
ESQ., OF PILGRIMSVILLE, MASS.]

 * * * * *

TO CAPTAIN HALL.

(IN ANTICIPATION OF HIS TRIP TO THE POLE.)

 HALL! HALL!
 D'ye hear our call?
 Or, do you fancy it to be
 A weather sign--merely the pre-
 Monition of a squall
 At sea!
 HALL!

 You pay no heed at all.
 Nevertheless, O hardy mariner!
 (A Snow-Bird brings this with our kindest love,)
 We're sorry you prefer
 Those frigid walks (ever so far above
 The 80th parallel, we guess!)
 To stocks, and tariffs, and domestic bliss;
 Yes, yes,
 Captain, we're sorry it has come to this!

 Why do you madly thirst
 For grog that's chopped up with a hatchet? say!
 And tell us of the first
 Strange thought which spurred you to go up that way!
 Was it the hope that on some icy coast
 (Frozen, yourself, almost!)
 You'd have the luck to meet poor FRANKLIN'S ghost?

 And has it seemed, sometimes,
 That drowning might be pleasanter up there
 Among the icebergs, native to those climes,
 Than where
 The surf breaks gently on some coral-reef,
 And sirens sweetly soothe one's slow despair?
 Say, was that your belief?

 And who is BENT?[*]
 Why was _he_ sent,
 With his Warm Currents wheeling round the Pole?
 A long, long race must his disciples run:
 No sun,
 No fun,
 No chance to toss a word to any one;
 And what a goal?

 As hopefully you munch
 The flinty biscuit, watching whale or seal,
 Or listening, undaunted, to the crunch
 Of ice-floes at the keel,
 Say, Sir Intrepid! shall you really think
 You pioneer the navies of the world?
 Not while the chink
 Of well-housed dollars sounds so pleasantly,
 And safer tracks map out the treacherous sea!
 If that's your dream, oh! let your sails be furled.

 But, no!
 It is not this! Your spirit, high and bold,
 Scorning all tamer joys, will have it so!
 No cold
 Can chill its ardor! Such a soul would sate
 Its death
less craving in some lofty flight,
 Some deed sublime, and read its shining fate
 By the Aurora's light!
 For fruitful fellowship, it seeks the wild,
 The frozen waste,
 Where the world's venturous heroes--reconciled
 To sunless, shuddering gloom--
 To joyless solitude--with ardor taste
 Their dread delights! and so at last find room,
 'Mid nodding icebergs, for their watery tomb!

 For this, we spare you,
 O dauntless HALL! Once having breathed that air
 So pure, so fresh, so rare!
 And caught the wildness of the Esquimaux,
 We declare you
 Unfit to live where beans and lettuce grow!
 Leave delving to the little pitiful mole,
 Great soul!
 And now, then, for the Pole!

[Footnote *: Captain BENT, of Cincinnati, originator of the new theory
of Polar Currents.]

 * * * * *

[Illustration: FINANCIAL RELIEF

MR. BUMBLE BOUTWELL TO MRS. CORNEY FISH. _(See Oliver Twist.)_ "THE GREAT
PRINCIPLE OF FINANCIAL RELIEF IS TO GIVE THE BUSINESS MEN EXACTLY WHAT
THEY DON'T WANT: THEN THEY GET TIRED OF COMING."]

 * * * * *

CONDENSED CONGRESS.

SENATE.

MR. SUMNER said he was the friend of the oppressed. That, as was well
known, was his regular business. Unfortunately, the Fifteenth Amendment
had rendered the colored man incapable of being hereafter regarded as an
oppressed creature. He was sorry, but it could not be helped. He was
therefore forced to go down the chromatic scale of creation and find
another class of clients. He found them in cattle. HOMER had sung about
the ox-eyed Juno, and WALTER WHITMAN about bob veal. COWPER had remarked
that he would not number in his list of friends the man who needlessly
set foot upon a cow. He mentioned these things merely to show that
railway companies had no right to starve cattle. He proposed an
amendment to the Constitution, to provide that a dinner of at least
three courses should be given to cows daily. Mr. DRAKE was heartily in
favor of the proposition. He had got his feet in a web, so to speak, by
paddling in the political waters of Missouri, and some people had gone
so far as to
 call him "quack." He demanded redress.

Mr. WILSON didn't see the use of all this legislation to protect
animals. Animals had no votes, although he admitted a partial exception,
in that every bull, it had its ballot. But he had something practical.
Here was a jolly job, the Pacific Railway grant. There was a good deal
more in it than they had made out of any other GRANT. Mr. THURMAN'S
suggestion, that this land ought to be occupied by actual settlers, he
scorned. "Actual settlers" were of a great deal more use to him in
Massachusetts, where they could vote for him, than in the territories,
where that boon would not be extended to them. It was much better that
they should be occupied by imaginary settlers, who could pay and not
vote. Actual "settlings" were the dregs of humanity.

The Georgia bill came up, as it does every day with much more regularity
than luncheon. The Senate has succeeded in muddling it to that degree of
unintelligibility that nobody has the slightest notion what it provides.
It is, therefore, in a condition to give rise to infinite debate. After
several senators had said enough for a foundation for thirty columns
each in the _Globe,_ they let it go for the present. The present was the
one promised by Senator WILSON in return for the Pacific Railway grab
grant.

HOUSE.

The House is given over to the tariff. A very indelicate discussion has
been had upon corsets. Mr. BROOKS was of opinion that the corset would
tariff it were subjected to any more strain in the way of duties. Mr.
MARSHALL remarked that the corset avoided a great deal of Waist. It was
whalebone of his bone, or something of that sort. It was one of the main
Stays of our social system.

Mr. SCHENCK made another speech. He ripped up the foreign corset in a
truculent manner. He said that American corsets were far superior, only
American women had not the sense to see it. The effect of taking off the
duty on corsets would be to take off the corsets.

Mr. BROOKS called the hooks and ayes on the corsets. Mr. SCHENCK opposed
the call. H
e had found a simple tape much preferable. He wished a
coffer-dam might be put upon the roaring BROOKS.

Somebody at this point brought up a contested election case; but Mr.
LOGAN objected to its being considered. What, he asked, was the use of
wasting time? There was money in the tariff. There was no money at all
in voting a Democrat out, and a Republican in. They could do that any
day in five minutes. His friend Mr. BUTLER had recently remarked, one
Democrat more or less made no difference. But Mr. BUTLER forgot that the
larger the majority, the larger the divisor for spoils, and therefore
the smaller the quotient and the "dividend." He did not know much about
arithmetic. He had never been at West Point; but he believed that a
million dollars, for instance, would go further and fare worse among two
hundred men than among three. If the House were not careful, there would
be a glut of Republicans in it, and the shares would be pitifully
meagre. As for him, he had a great mind, (derisive cheers)--he repeated,
that he had a great mind to vote for a Democrat next time.

In spite of Mr. LOGAN'S warning, the House voted in a couple or so of
Republicans, and then resumed the duty on wool.

Mr. Cox thought this wool had been pulled over the eyes of the house
often enough. It reminded him of an expedition, of which Mr. LOGAN had
never heard, in search of a "Golden Fleece."

Mr. JENCKES, and Mr. SCHENCK, and Mr. KELLEY called him to order in
behalf of their constituents, who were in the wool business, and said
that "wool" in one form or another had always been the staple of their
political career.

Mr. BUTLER said he had a little game worth two of that. He wanted to buy
San Domingo. In this there were plenty of commissions, and hundreds of
thousands of colored votes.

 * * * * *

FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT.

ALDERMANIC RECEPTION UP-TOWN.

 CAESAR, walk in! Ah POMPEY! how d'e do?
 This way, CLEM! Gentlemen, please walk right through!
 GEORGE, how's your mother? Fine day, PETE--fine day!
 Well, how are things down there at Oyster 
Bay?

 Ah AUNTIE! how's your rheumatiz, this spring?
 Well, Mr. JOHNSON, did you try that sling?
 Why, this is Uncle STEVE! How-do-you-do.
 Uncle? Sit down. What can I do for you?

 Well, Mr. PRINCE! You must be busy, now.
 Whitewashing is the best thing done, I vow!
 Why, hel-lo! REGIS! From the Cape so soon?
 When do you open, this year--first of June?

 Come, gentlemen--some wine? Now, don't refuse!
 What! temperate? teetotal? Well, that's news!
 And good news, too! Well, coffee, then. You see,
 My friends, the _sentiment's_ the thing with me.

 The real Mocha, AUNTIE! Simon pure!
 Raised by free Arabs. For I can't endure
 A single thing that's flavored with a Wrong!
 Yes, AUNTIE, you are right, I've "come out strong!"

 So have the Colored People, I may say!
 (One fact explains the other, up this way!)
 They've proved their strength! It's settled, sure as a gun,
 That every Colored Voter now counts One!

 Now, gentlemen, you'll be surprised to find
 So many people with your turn of mind!
 But, sure as tricks! remember what I say--
 You'll learn some things before Election Day!

 POMPEY--'twon't take much time, (and you can spare it!)
 Try this old fiddle, picked up in the garret!
 Good? It's your fiddle! AUNTIE, here's a pound
 Of that same genuine Mocha, ready ground!

 Say, Uncle STEVE, I've got a fish for you,
 Down at the market. Call again, PETE; do!
 I'll have a job for you and CAESAR soon:
 It's only waiting for a change of moon.

 CLEM, how'd you like a chance to wait on table?
 Or, would you rather drive, and run my stable?
 GEORGE, in the kitchen there's a pan of souse!
 Going? All gone? Now, BRIDGET, air the house!

 * * * * *

Historic Parallel.

THE JACK CADE movement came near destroying London. The Ar-Cade movement
threatens to destroy Broadway.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A CHEAP LUXURY.

SNIFFLES LOVES THE SMELL OF ROASTED CHESTNUTS, AND ENJOYS IT FOR HOURS
EVERY DAY; BUT HE NEVER EATS ANY--WHICH ACCOUNTS FOR THE JOYOUS EXPRESSION
ON THE FACE OF THE VENDER.]

 * * * * *

BUSINESS.

A CHICAGO 
LAY.

 I saw her sweet lip quiver,
 As he started for the store.
 Because he hadn't kissed her
 "Several" times or more.

 She cried "This horrid business!"
 And then flew to her glass;
 "Oh! why his cold remissness?
 Have I grown plain, alas?"

 But no, that truthful article
 Revealed her charms intact,
 She hadn't lost one particle,
 But had improved, in fact.

 At nine the case was opened,
 At ten the case was o'er;
 The jury brought their virdict--
 She was his wife no more.

 That night the husband started,
 And--"_you_ bet"--he swore,
 To find his wife departed,
 And "_To Let_" on the door.

 Next day he moved and married.
 And, that his bride might stay,
 He kissed her every morning
 Before he went away.

 * * * * *

Pot-umania.

A correspondent writes that a new mania has sprung up among the ladies
of Edinburgh--a fancy for learning to cook. There is a much older mania
in some parts of that country--a fancy for something to cook.

 * * * * *

About a Foot.

A BOOT when it's on.

 * * * * *

IMPORTANT TO PUBLISHERS.

One of our corps of Philosophers (a trifle visionary, perhaps) has been
speculating as to certain possible (or, perhaps, impossible) results
flowing from the practice among publishers of ante-dating their monthly
issues. Thus, supposing that the world should be destroyed by fire (and
why not? it is bad enough) on the 15th of May, 1870, and a cover of,
say, _Putnam's_ for June, carried up by an air-current, should, after
floating about ever so long in space, finally descend on some friendly
planet--we will say, Venus. Here it would naturally get picked up by an
archaeologist, (who would be on the spot looking out for it,) and the
interesting relic would be promptly and reverently deposited among the
other Vestiges of Creation, in the Royal Cabinet. In the course of
years, some historian would probably have occasion to turn over these
curiosities, and would presently light on the scorched but still legible
waif. "Why," says he, in astonishment, "I thought the earth was burnt on
the 15th of May! 
To be sure, it was _in the night_, and nobody saw it
go, [think of that, conceited Worldling!] but it was missed by somebody
the day after. But here we have a document from the late unfortunate
planet dated the first of June!"

Of course, upon this the History of the Universe would have to be
rewritten, or that odd fortnight would play the mischief somewhere!

 * * * * *

A Boston Boy.

HUB-BUB.

 * * * * *

"Curses Come Home to Roost."

They are putting the Fifth Avenue pavement in front of the City Hall.

 * * * * *

To Politicians.

Will the working of the Fifteenth Amendment oblige a candidate to show
his Color before election?

 * * * * *

So We Go!

We notice, with much agitation and a reasonable amount of grief, that
somebody in Philadelphia (possibly Miss ANNA DICKINSON) has invented a
machine for the laundry called The King Washer! A few years ago it would
have been The Queen Washer; but in these days the name seems to indicate
that to Man, unhappy Man, will speedily be committed the destinies of
the weekly washing. Oh! the rubbing, the rinsing, the wringing. But Mr.
PUNCHINELLO has already communicated to Mrs. PUNCHINELLO his sentiments
upon this subject. Under no circumstances will he get at the family
linen. He must make a stand somewhere, and he makes it here.

 * * * * *

Let them Bark.

Miss BARKALOW has been admitted to practice at the bar in St. Louis. We
have frequently before seen young ladies at a bar, where others
practiced more than they did; but we do not see why, if Miss BARKALOW
wishes to bark aloud, she should not be allowed to bark, aloud or
otherwise. Barking may be particularly good in a cross-examination; but
we presume that a lady attorney's bark will be always worse than her
bite.

 * * * * *

"She Stoops to Conquer."

The girl with the Grecian Bend.

 * * * * *

Query.

Is it allowable for a Temperance man to be Cordial to his friends?

 * * * * *

Weak as Water.

Our cynical friend A. QUARIUS writes us from Philadelphia, that
considering the manner in which the Sunday liquor law 
is enforced in
that city, he thinks his native place is still entitled--perhaps more
than ever entitled to be called the city of Rye-tangles. This is
ungrateful.

 * * * * *

SPIRITUAL SUSCEPTIBILITY OF CATS.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: Our Society has been very learnedly debating as to
whether Cats are susceptible of spiritual impressions; and, although the
burden of opinion inclines to the negative of the question, I am firmly
persuaded there is much to justify a contrary judgment.

As I slept the other night, neither dreaming nor holding psychological
intercourse of any description with outsiders, I was awakened suddenly
about the first hour of the morning by a noise. I am quite certain it
was a noise, and have therefore no hesitation in so recording it. The
new moon hung athwart the western sky, and a few fleecy clouds were
chasing each other like snow-drifts across the blue vault of the night.
I may likewise note the fact that the stars were doing what they usually
do, notwithstanding the difference of opinion that sometimes exists as
to what that is. It was the evening after "wash-day," and family linen,
in graceful curves and undulating outlines, everywhere met the eye as it
turned from contemplating the stars to contemplating the clothes-lines
in the gardens. But I wander. The noise? Ah! yes. Well, it was not like
the collision of two hard substances, but rather of the heavy "thud"
order of sound, like the descent of a solid into a soft substance; say,
for instance, of a flat-iron into a jar of unrisen buck-wheat batter. I
glanced along the ghostly battalions of family linen; along the fences
traversed by feline sentries; along the latticed arbors; but nothing to
indicate the origin of the alarm could be discovered, and as at that
moment a breeze stirred in the apartment, producing a chilling
sensation, I thought it prudent to jump back into bed.

Next morning, upon making my usual visit to note the progress of the
early bulbs in the flower-beds, I encountered at the further end of the
garden the remains of a cat-
-a portly and ancient grimalkin of the
sterner sex. Close at hand was a bottle lying face downward, and corked.
I raised it--first in my hands, and then to my lips. The cork fell out,
accidentally as it were, and, as a consequence, death. "Poor thing!" I
murmured; "poor--" and a portion of the contents glided carelessly down
my throat. I perceived that the liquid was "Old Rye." As I stooped down,
tears would have come to my eyes; but it was useless, seeing that the
breath had left the unfortunate's body. Nevertheless, I rested my hand a
moment upon his head, and then glided it in a semi-professional manner
along the line of dorsal elevation, until I came to a deep depression in
his backbone, which corresponded exactly with the convexity of the
bottle. Then I saw at once how it was; this missile, (in the heat of
passion, being mistaken for an empty one, probably,) had been hurled by
some treacherous hand upon the unsuspecting Tom, striking him midway
between the root of the tail and the base of the brain, causing instant
suspension of his vertebral communications, "Poor thing! You were the
victim of a Catastrophe. You were also the victim of the bottle. The
'Rye' was too heavy for you, and should have been drawn milder." This
said, I turned sadly away to find a burial spade, and it then occurred
to me that this little incident was kindly meant to confirm my view that
cats are susceptible, even to a fatal extent, of spiritual
impressions--especially when conveyed by spirits of "Old Rye."

GOBBO.

 * * * * *

From the Tombs.

When a drunken man has been locked up for beating his wife, it is
reasonable to suppose that he must feel rather the worse for lick her.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: PERSONAL GOSSIP.

(From the Daily Press.)

"A SON OF ONE OF OUR WEALTHIEST RESIDENTS DISPLAYS GREAT TALENTS AS A
SCULPTOR. HE IS BUT NINE YEARS OLD."]

 * * * * *

A BIT OF NATURAL HISTORY.

Naturalists tell us that the _Aye-aye_ is a small animal of Madagascar,
with sharp teeth, long claws, and a tail; which eats whatever it can
gr
ab, and says nothing day or night but _aye-aye_. Now, we find that,
AGASSIZ to the contrary notwithstanding, this strange and not very
useful animal is indigenous to the State of Pennsylvania. It especially
frequents Harrisburg; and may be seen and heard any day there, in the
Senate or House. Being an active member of that House, your
correspondent has been present during the passage of three hundred bills
within a week or two, in about one hundred and ten of which he had some
personal interest.

Lifting his eyes one day from his newspaper, when the Speaker took the
vote on an "Act to amend the Incorporation of the City of Philadelphia,"
which your correspondent happened to know included the presentation of a
three-story brownstone front to each of a committee of six members of
the House, he found there was not one member in his seat; but, in the
place of a few, there was a company of these remarkable _Aye-ayes_,
responding duly to the call for a vote; but never a _no_ among them. No,
no!

Now, your correspondent holds the deliberate opinion that, in several
respects, these aforesaid small animals of Madagascar might be an
improvement upon the average Pennsylvania legislators. And, if your
correspondent had to do with getting up the other one hundred and ninety
bills, as he did the one hundred and ten, all right: Otherwise, _not_.
How does PUNCHINELLO regard it?

Yours, LEGISLATOR.

 * * * * *

An Augean Job.

PUNCHINELLO has telegraphed to Governor GEARY his approval of the
"Sewage Utilization" bill at Harrisburg, on one condition: that the
first piece of work be finished up by the members of the Pennsylvania
Legislature with their own hands; that work to be, to make up into
_decent_ manure, _deodorized_ and _disinfected_, all bills passed at the
late session of their House and Senate. Since, however, complete
deodorization is probably _impossible_, PUNCHINELLO advises also that
the said members be required to cart all their stuff out to the Bad
Lands of Nebraska, and remain there to make the best use of it; or 
else
make a contract with Captain HALL to ship it and them to the Arctic
regions at once.

 * * * * *

On the Finances.

Says Crispin, "Did not somebody say it was BOUTWELL in the Treasury now?
A great mistake. About well, to be sure! When the newspaper men have
111-1/2 of gold, and I haven't a round dollar! Where did they get it?
And then the legal tender question. I never asked but _one_ tender
question in all my life, and that was to SUSAN and she said, Yes. And
then we were legally married. Nobody ought to ask such questions _out
loud_; it's not _decent_. And _fine answering_ an't much better.
Financiering, is it? Ah! well. _Specious assumption_, too; but that
requires brass, and I want _gold_. Meantime, who's got a twenty-five
cent note?"

 * * * * *

Massachusetts Flats.

Massachusetts must abound in Flats. Its Legislature is annually agitated
from the sands of Cape Cod to the hills of Berkshire over the question.
It is said to be wisdom to set a rogue to catch a rogue. Is it equally
so to set a flat to catch one?

 * * * * *

NATIONAL TAXIDERMY.

[Illustration 'P']

PUNCHINELLO has for some time past carefully considered the subject of
our national tariff of imposts, (_that is to say, he happened to see, in
a Tribune, the other day, that lucifer matches were now to be stamped
separately, and not by the box, as heretofore_) and he has come to the
conclusion, after duly weighing in his mind all the arguments for and
against the present system of taxation, (_that is to say, he made up his
mind the minute he read the article_,) that what the present tariff
needs, is a more thorough application and a better classification; or,
what the technologists call Taxonomy, which term is suggested to him by
a work on the subject which he has been recently studying. (_That is to
say, he looked in the dictionary to find out what Taxidermy meant, and
seeing Taxonomy there, snapped it up for a sort of collateral pun_.) As
an illustration of what our impost legislators (or imposters) ought to
be, let us take the Taxidermist. 
He is one who takes from an animal
every thing but his skin and bones, and stuffs him up afterward with all
sorts of nonsense. Now, our National Taxidermists ought to take a lesson
from their original. Many of the good people of the United States have
much more left them than their skin and bones. Why is not all that
taken? The condition of the ordinary stuffed animal of the shops is
strikingly significant of what should be expected of loyal communities.
(_That is to say, communities which vote a certain ticket which need not
be named here_.) It is often said that there are things which flesh and
blood will not bear. Now, a thorough system of Taxidermy remedies all
this. A stuffed 'possum, for instance, having no flesh or blood, will
bear any thing. When the people of this country are thoroughly cleaned
out, they will be just as docile. Among the things which PUNCHINELLO
would recommend as fit subjects of taxation, is a man's expenses. They
have not been taxed yet. If he pays for his income, why not for his
outgoes? The immense sums that are annually expended in this country for
this, that, and the other thing ought certainly to yield a revenue to
the government. (_That is to say, there ought to be a new army of
collectors and assessors appointed. P. knows lots of good men out of
office_.) And then there's a man's time. Why not tax that? Nearly every
man spends a lot of time, and he ought to pay for it. As it would be our
tax, it could not be a very minute tax, although it is only the second
tax which we have suggested. (_That is to say--- something pun-ny_.) And
besides these things, there's energy. We often hear of a man's energies
being taxed; but, so far as the matter is apparent to the naked eye, it
is difficult to see whose energies are taxed for the good of the
government at the present day. This subject should certainly be
investigated. (_That is to say, a committee of Congressmen should be
appointed, with power to send for persons, papers, and extra
compensation_.) Politics, too. Every man has his politi
cs, (_that is to
say, every man except Bennett_,) and they ought to be taxed, if for no
other reason than the great impetus the measure would give to the
erection of fences throughout the land. And letters, too. If every one
sent by the mail should yield one cent to the Treasury, how the currency
would be inflated in that locality! (_That is to say, in the locality to
which the collectors would abscond_.) But it is impossible, with the
limited time at his disposal, for PUNCHINELLO to enter into a full
examination and elucidation of this subject. (_That is to say, he can't
think of any more illustrations just now, and the printer wouldn't stand
any more, if he could_.) But it must be admitted that the great task of
opening up the country, of which we hear so much, will never be complete
until the Washington skinners and stuffers get us all into the prepared
specimen condition. (_That is to say, when the people are all willing
to_ "_dry up_.")

 * * * * *

JOHN CHINAMAN'S BILLING AND COOING.--Pigeon English.

 * * * * *

CABLE NEWS.

(EXCLUSIVELY FOR PUNCHINELLO.)

QUEEN ISABELLA has sent her compliments to Senor CASTELAR, as well as to
General PRIM, informing them that, on the whole, she thinks she will
_not_ return to the throne of Spain. It does not agree with her quiet
and refined tastes and habits to live so much in public. All she wants
now is a little _chateau en Espagne_. She proposes to send her son,
Prince of ASTURIAS, to Professor CASTELAR, to study modern history. Is
it not odd, by the way, that a country so long _Mad-rid-den_ as Spain,
should have now a governor with such a name as PRIM? But, what's in a
name? BOURBON, by any other name, would smell as sweet. Some, however,
prefer Old Rye. I prefer _water_ to both; _especially_ to BOURBON.

It's an old story that _two positives make a negative_. Paris news tells
us that a late will case has exemplified this. COMTE, you know, was a
_positive_ philosopher. He had a positive wife. She had a will of her
own. He wrote a will of his own. Consequently, it got
 into court. Mme.
COMTE it seems, who did not agree with the philosophy while the
philosopher lived, wanted his MSS. after his death. Positively, the
court did not see it in that light; and so the negative came out. It was
a case of no go, or _non-ego_, as HEGEL might have called it. Did you
ever read HEGEL? I didn't; and I advise you not to begin. It won't pay.
I am told that he divided all things into Egos, She goes, and Non-egos,
or No-goes. The latter particularly; So do I.

But to return to Spain; or rather to Paris. Don FRANCOIS D'ASSISSI has,
it appears, suddenly discovered that his wife is not Queen of Spain so
much as she was. Much less so. So, he has found her company rather
expensive than agreeable; and proposes to abdicate it. Not so _very_
much of an ass, is he? Bravo for Don FRANCOIS!

In London, _to-morrow_ will be made famous in literature by _the_ great
dinner in honor of the advent of PUNCHINELLO. Mr. PUNCH is talked of to
preside. An unprecedented rush for tickets has begun. More about it in
my next.

PRIME.

 * * * * *

Cutting.

We see extensively advertised the "Saxon Razor;" but have not yet
summoned up sufficient courage to try this article, which "no
gentleman's dressing-case should be without." We cannot dispossess our
minds of the apprehension of cutting ourselves, remembering that line
descriptive of the combat between FITZ-JAMES and RODERICK DHU, in which
it is said, that,

 "----thrice the Saxon blade drank blood."

 * * * * *

Musical.

The vocal abilities of hens are admitted; but they rarely attempt the
Chro-matic scale.

 * * * * *

De Jure.

No man can now be a juror who knows any thing about the case which he is
to try. Thus a juryman was challenged in the MCFARLAND case merely
because he belonged to Dr. BELLOWS's church. It was held that he might
possibly have got Wind of the matter while listening to the Doctor's
discourse.

 * * * * *

BOOK NOTICES.

AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL. By LOUISA M. ALCOTT. Boston: ROBERTS BROTHERS.
New-York: D. APPLETON & Co.

The author of "Little Women
" seeks, and not without success, to draw
from her "Old-Fashioned Girl" a contrast and a moral. She presents to
our view two young ladies of opposite "styles." One is fresh and rural:
the other isn't. The difference between country and city bringing-up is
the point aimed at; and the difference is about as great as that between
the warbling of woodside birds and the jingle of one of OFFENBACH'S
tunes on a corner barrel-organ. The book is neatly set forth, with
illustrations by Messrs. ROBERTS, BROTHERS, of Boston.

RED AS A ROSE IS SHE. By the author of "Cometh up as a Flower," etc.
New-York: D. APPLETON & Co.

A readable book, notwithstanding that there are several naughty
characters in it, or perhaps _because_ there are. Probably it depicts
with truth the kind of society presented. If so, all the worse for
society. Shall we never again have healthful, virtuous novels of the old
school, such as "Tom Jones?" The book is published in tasteful form by
Messrs. D. APPLETON & Co.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & CO. |
 | |
 | ARE OFFERING |
 | |
 | Extraordinary Inducements, |
 | |
 | IN PRICE, STYLE, AND QUALITY, |
 | |
 | TO HOUSEKEEPERS |
 | |
 | IN |
 | |
 | Linens, Sheetings, |
 | |
 | DAMASKS, NAPKINS, TOWELLINGS, |
 | |
 | DRESS LINENS, PRINTED LINENS, |
 | |
 | FLANNELS, BLANKETS, QUILTS, |
 | |
 | COUNTERPANES, SHEETINGS, |
 | |
 | Bleached and Brown Cottons, |
 | |
 | Standard American Prints, etc., etc. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Ave., 9th and 10th Sts. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | HAVE OPENED A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF |
 | |
 | LADIES' PARIS MADE DRESSES |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | WALKING SUITS, |
 | |
 | In Silk, Poplin, and Linen, |
 | |
 | ENTIRE NEW DESIGNS. |
 | |
 | FRENCH SILK CLOAKS, |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | SHORT STREET SACQUES. |
 | |
 | Children's Cloaks, Ladies' Breakfast Jackets, |
 | |
 | Ladies' Pique, Swiss, and Cambric |
 | |
 | Morning Robes and Walking
 Suits, |
 | |
 | LADIES' UNDERGARMENTS |
 | |
 | Of every description. |
 | |
 | French, German, and Domestic Corsets, |
 | |
 | Woven and hand-made. |
 | |
 | JUST RECEIVED. |
 | |
 | AT EXTREMELY ATTRACTIVE PRICES, |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | Fourth Ave., Ninth and Tenth Sts. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | _The two great objects of a learner's ambition ought to be |
 | to speak a foreign language idiomatically, and to pronounce |
 | it correctly; and these are the objects which are most |
 | carefully provided for in the_ MASTERY SYSTEM. |
 | |
 | The Mastery of Languages; |
 | |
 | OR, |
 | |
 | THE ART OF SPEAKING LANGUAGES IDIOMATICALLY. |
 | |
 | BY THOMAS PRENDERGAST. |
 | |
 | _I. Hand-Book of the Mastery Series. |
 | II. The Mastery Series. French. |
 | III. The Mastery Series. German. |
 | IV. The Mastery Series. Spanish._ |
 | |
 | PRICE 50 CENTS EACH. |
 | |
 | _From Professor E. M. Gallaudet, of the National Deaf Mute |
 | College._ |
 | |
 | "The results which crowned the labor of the first week were |
 | so astonishing that he fears to detail them fully, lest |
 | doubts should be raised as to his credibility. But this much |
 | he does not hesitate to claim, that, after a study of less |
 | than two weeks, he was able to sustain conversation in the |
 | newly-acquired language on a great variety of subjects." |
 | |
 | FROM THE ENGLISH PRESS. |
 | |
 | "The principle may be explained in a line--it is first |
 | learning the language, and then studying the grammar, and |
 | then learning (or trying to learn) the language."--_Morning |
 | Star_. |
 | |
 | "We know that there are some who have given Mr. |
 | Prendergast's plan a trial, and discovered that in a few |
 | weeks its results had surpassed all their |
 | expectations."--_Record_. |
 | |
 | "A week's patient trial of the French Manual has convinced |
 | me that the method is sound."--_Papers for the |
 | Schoolmaster_. |
 | |
 | "The simplicity and naturalness of the system are |
 | obvio
us."--_Herald_ (Birmingham.) |
 | |
 | "We know of no other plan which will infallibly lead to the |
 | result in a reasonable time."--_Norfolk News_. |
 | |
 | FROM THE AMERICAN PRESS. |
 | |
 | "The system is as near as can be to the one in which a child |
 | to talk."--_Troy Whig_. |
 | |
 | "We would advise all who are about to begin the study of |
 | languages to give it a trial."--_Rochester Democrat_. |
 | |
 | "For European travellers this volume is |
 | invaluable."--_Worcester Spy_. |
 | |
 | Either of the above volumes sent by mail free to any part of |
 | the United States on receipt of price. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., Publishers, |
 | |
 | 90, 92, and 94 Grand Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | RED AS A ROSE IS SHE. |
 | |
 | _Third Edition._ |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | |
 | 90, 92, and 94 Grand Street, |
 | |
 | Have now ready the Third Edition of |
 | |
 | RED AS A ROSE IS SHE. |
 | |
 | By the Author of "Cometh up as a Flower." |
 | |
 | 1 vol. 8vo. Paper Covers, 60 cents. |
 | |
 | From the New York _Evening Express_. |
 | |
 | "This is truly a charming novel; for half its contents |
 | breathe the very odor of the flower it takes as its title." |
 | |
 | From the Philadelphia _Inquirer_. |
 | |
 | "The author can and does write well; the descriptions of |
 | scenery are particularly effective, always graphic, and |
 | never overstrained." |
 | |
 | D. A. & Co. have just published: |
 | |
 | A SEARCH FOR WINTER SUNBEAMS IN THE RIVIERA, CORSICA, |
 | ALGIERS, AND SPAIN. |
 | By Hon. S. S. Cox. Illustrated. Price, $3. |
 | |
 | REPTILES AND BIRDS: A POPULAR ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS ORDERS, |
 | WITH A DESCRIPTION OF THE HABITS AND ECONOMY OF THE MOST |
 | INTERESTING. |
 | By Louis Figuler. Illustrated with 307 wood-cuts. 8vo, $6. |
 | |
 | HEREDITARY GENIUS: AN INQUIRY INTO ITS LAWS AND |
 | CONSEQUENCES. |
 | By Francis Galton. 1 vol. 8vo. $3.50. |
 | |
 | HAND-BOOK OF THE MASTERY SERIES OF LEARNING LANGUAGES. |
 | I. THE HAND
-ROOK OF THE MASTERY SERIES. |
 | II. THE MASTERY SERIES, FRENCH. |
 | III. THE MASTERY SERIES, GERMAN. |
 | IV. THE MASTERY SERIES, SPANISH. |
 | Price, 50 cents each. |
 | |
 | Either of the above sent free by mail to any address on |
 | receipt of the price. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | BURCH'S |
 | |
 | Merchant's Restaurant |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | DINING-ROOM, |
 | |
 | 310 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | BETWEEN PEARL AND DUANE STREETS. |
 | |
 | _Breakfast from 7 to 10 A.M. |
 | Lunch and Dinner from 12 to 3 P.M. |
 | Supper from 4 to 7 P.M._ |
 | |
 | M. C. BURCH, of New-York. |
 | A. STOW, of Alabama. |
 | H. A. CARTER, of Massachusetts. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Important to Newsdealers! |
 | |
 | ALL ORDERS FOR |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO |
 | |
 | Will be supplied by |
 | |
 | OUR SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE AGENTS, |
 | |
 | American News Co. |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | BEGS TO ANNOUNCE TO THE FRIENDS OF |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY, THAT, |
 | |
 | FOR THEIR CONVENIENCE |
 | |
 | HE HAS MADE ARRANGEMENTS BY WHICH, ON RECEIPT OF THE PRICE |
 | OF |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | THE SAME WILL BE FORWARDED, POSTAGE PAID. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing Houses, |
 | can have the same forwarded by inclosing two stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 | [P. O. Box 2783.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: A SUCCESSFUL CATCH.

_John Bull._ "WELL, GENERAL, HOW DID YOU CATCH YOUR FISH?"

 _General Prim._ "WITH A SPANISH FLY."]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Jonathan Ingram and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE EULOGIES OF HOWARD.

A VISION.

 ----to tell of deeds
 Above heroic. MILTON.

M.DCC.XCI.

THE EULOGIES OF HOWARD

It was my chance to be conversing with a Friend of the benevolent and
indefatigable HOWARD, when our country was first afflicted with the
public intelligence of his death. After our first expression of surprize
and sorrow, we naturally fell into serious and affectionate reflections
on the gentle character and sublime pursuits of the deceased. On these
articles we had no difference of opinion; but in the course of our
conversation a point arose, on which our sentiments were directly
opposite, though we were equally sincere and ardent in our regret and
veneration for the departed Worthy, to whom it related. I happened to
speak of the public honours that, I hoped, a grateful, a generous, a
magnificent Nation would render to his memory. My companion immediately
exclaimed, "that every ostentatious memorial, to commemorate the virtues
of his friend, would be inconsistent with the meekness and simplicity of
the man; that all, who had the happiness of knowing HOWARD, must
recollect with what genuine modesty he had ever retired from the
enthusiastic admiration of those, who had hoped to gratify his ambition
by undeserved applause; that he had really sought no reward but in the
approbation of his conscience and his GOD; that the British Nation,
however eminent for genius and munificence, could not devise any
posthumous honours, or raise any monument, truly worthy of HOWARD,
except in adopting and accomplishing those benevolent projects which his
philanthropy and experience had recommended to public attention for the
benefit of mankind."

I readily admitted the singular and unquestionable modesty of the
deceased.--I allowed that the noblest tribute of respect, which the
world could render to so pure a spirit, would be to realize his ideas;
but I contended, that other honours are still due to his name; that it
is the duty and the interest of mankind
 to commemorate his character
with the fondest veneration. I reminded my companion, that although we
were sincerely convinced that no human mind, engaged in great designs,
could be more truly modest than that of HOWARD; yet we had particular
reason to recollect, that he was not insensible to praise. He had once
imparted to us his feelings on that subject with a frank and tender
simplicity, highly graceful in an upright and magnanimous being,
conscious of no sentiment that he could wish to conceal. Indeed, a
sincere and ardent passion for virtue could hardly subsist with a
disdain of true glory, which is nothing more than the proper testimony
of intelligent and honed admiration to the existence of merit: nor is it
reasonable to suppose that the fondest expressions of remembrance from a
world, which he has served and enlightened, can be displeasing to the
spirit of "a just man made perfect;" since we are taught by Religion,
that the gratitude of mankind is acceptable even to GOD. I endeavoured
to convince my companion, that, as the Publick had seen in HOWARD a
person who reflected more genuine honour on our country than any of her
Philosophers, her Poets, her Orators, her Heroes, or Divines, it is
incumbent on the Nation to consult her own glory by commemorating, in
the fullest manner, his beneficent exertions, and by establishing the
dignity of his unrivaled virtue.

My arguments, and my zeal, made some impression on the mind of my
antagonist; and sunk so deeply into my own, that on my retiring to rest
they gave rise to the following vision.

I was suddenly transported to the confines of a region, which astonished
me by its loveliness and extent; it was called, The Paradise of true
Glory. As I approached the entrance, my eyes were delightfully
fascinated by two beings of human form, who presided over the portal.
Their names were Genius and Sensibility:--it was their office to gratify
with a view of this Paradise every mortal that revered them sincerely;
and to reject only such intruders as presumed to treat either
 the one or
the other with the insolence of disdain, or the coldness of contempt: an
incident that I should have thought impossible, from the transcendent
beauty which is visible in each; but, to my surprize, they informed me
it very frequently happened.

As I readily paid them the unsuspected homage of my soul, I was
graciously permitted to pass the gate.--Immediately as I entered, I was
saluted with a seraphic smile, by two benignant and inseparable Spirits:
these were Gratitude and Admiration, the joint rulers of the
dominion--"You are welcome," said the first, in a tone of angelic
tenderness--"You are welcome to a scene utterly new to your senses, and
in harmony with your heart: you delight in the praises of the deserving:
and you are now wafted to a spot, where those who have merited highly of
mankind are praised in proportion to their desert, and where the praise
of exalted merit is fondly listened to by an extensive human audience,
here purified by our supernatural agency from all the low and little
jealousies of the earth."

I had hardly answered this pleasing information by a grateful obeisance
to my radiant informer, when I perceived, in a gorgeous prospect that
now opened before us, three structures of stupendous size and superior
magnificence. The first was situated in a grove of olives, and appeared
to me like an ancient temple of Attica, remarkable for massive strength,
and a sober dignity--the second was less solid, but richer in
decoration; and seemed to be almost surrounded by every tree and plant
on which Nature has bestowed any salutary virtue: the third was shaded
only by palms; the form of it was so wonderfully grand and aweful, that
it struck me as a sanctuary for every pure and devout spirit from all
the nations of the globe.

"These structures, that you survey with astonishment," said one of my
benevolent conductors, "are devoted to what you mortals denominate the
three liberal professions, Law, Medicine, and Theology. Whoever has a
claim to distinguished honour from any one of the three, 
has a just
encomium pronounced upon his services by the temporary President of that
particular fabrick, in which he is entitled to such grateful
remembrance." "Alas!" I replied, with a murmur that I could not
suppress, "the Man whose well-deserved praises I most anxiously expected
to hear in this region, belonged not to any one of these eminent classes
in human life--he had no profession but that of Humanity."

"Be patient," said the sweetest of my aetherial guides, with a rebuke
that was softened by a smile of indulgence! "Let not your zeal for the
honour of an individual, however meritorious, make you unjust, or
insensible, to the merit of others! Assume the temper of this region,
where praise is distributed by equity and affection, but where prejudice
and partiality are not allowed to intrude!--Let us advance," continued
my monitor, with an encouraging movement of her hand; "it is time that I
should lead you to the nearest assembly."

I obeyed with reverential silence; and as I passed the vestibule of the
majestic edifice, my heart panted with an aweful expectation of
beholding the shades of Solon, Lycurgus, and other departed Legislators,
from the various nations of the world. I was chearfully surprized by a
very different spectacle.

The capacious structure was filled with a concourse of living mortals,
lively, yet respectable in their appearance, evidently belonging to
many countries; but all, as I perceived by their habits, connected with
the Law. Throughout all the multitude I heard no sound of dissention or
debate: but over all there reigned an air of intelligence and sympathy,
while all were hushed in silent expectance, and eager attention, with
their eyes directed to an elevated tribunal:--On this a personage was
sitting, whose majestic figure I immediately recollected. His
countenance is marked with that austerity and grandeur, which are the
external characteristicks of Law herself. His heart, as those who know
it ultimately declare, expresses the tender and beneficent influence of
that Power, who is 
the acknowledged parent of security and comfort. With
a voice that pervaded the most distant recesses of the extensive dome,
and in tones that sunk deep into the bosom of every auditor, he
pronounced the following oration:

"After passing many years of life in the painful investigation of human
offences, it is with peculiar satisfaction that I find myself
commissioned to commemorate, in this Assembly, a character of virtue
without example--a character, at once so meek and so sublime, that, if a
feeling spirit had been poisoned with misanthropy from too close a
contemplation of mortal crimes, this character alone might serve as an
antidote to the word of mental distempers, and awaken the most callous
and sarcastic mind to confess the dignity of our Nature, and the
beneficence of our God. In stating to you the merits of HOWARD, I might
expatiate with delight on the various qualities of this incomparable
man; I might trace his progress through the different periods of a life
always singular and always instructive. I could not be checked by any
fear of overstepping the modesty of Truth in the celebration of Virtue,
so solid and so extensive, that the malevolence of Envy could not
diminish its weight, the fondness of Enthusiasm could not amplify its
effects. But I must not forget that there are professional limits to my
discourse. It is incumbent on me to confine myself to a single object,
and to dwell only on those public services, that peculiarly endear the
name of Howard to the liberal and enlightened community in which I have
the honour to preside.

"It was in the capacity of a Minister to Justice, that the pure spirit,
whom it is my glory to praise, first conceived the idea of those
unrivaled labours that have rendered his memory a treasure to mankind.
In discharging a temporary office, that exposed to him the condition of
criminals, he was led to meditate on the evils which had grievously
contaminated the operations of Justice. He perceived that Law herself,
like one of her most illustrious Delegates (I mean the
 immortal Bacon),
was grossly injured by the secret and sordid enormities of her menial
servants: that Captivity and Coercion, those necessary supporters of her
power, instead of producing good, often gave birth to mischiefs more
flagrant, and more fatal, than those which they were employed to
correct. He found, even in the prisons of his own humane and enlightened
country, an accumulation of the most hideous abuses: he found them not
nurseries of penitence and amendment, but schools of vice and impiety;
or dens of filth, famine, and disease: not the seats of just and
salutary correction and punishment, but the strong holds of cruelty and
extortion. The irons of the prisoner, which he only beheld, entered into
his soul, and awakened unextinguishable energy in a spirit, of which
companion and fortitude were the divine characteristicks. In the noble
emotions of pity for the oppressed, and of zeal for the honour and
interest of civilized society, he conceived perhaps the sublimest design
that ever occupied and exalted the mind of man, the design to search and
to purify the polluted stream of Penal Justice, not only throughout his
own country, but through the various nations of the world. How low, how
little, are the grandest enterprizes of Heroic Ambition, when compared
with this magnanimous pursuit! How frivolous and vain are the highest
aims of Fancy and Science, when contrasted with a purpose so
beneficently great! But, marvellous as the magnitude of HOWARD'S
enterprise appears, on the slightest view that magnitude becomes doubly
striking, when we contemplate at the same time the many circumstances
that might either allure or deter him from the prosecution of his idea.
Consider him as a private gentleman, possessed of ease and independence,
accustomed to employ and amuse his mind in retired study and
philosophical speculation; arrived at that period of life, when the
springs of activity and enterprize in the human frame have begun to
lose their force! consider that his health, even in youth, had appeared
unequal 
to common fatigue! his stature low! his deportment humble! his
voice almost effeminate! Such was the wonderful being, who relinquished
the retirement, the tranquillity, the comforts, that he loved and
enjoyed, to embark in labours at which the most hardy might tremble; to
plunge in perils from which the most resolute might recede without a
diminution of honour. Under all these apparent disadvantages,
unsummoned, unauthorized by any Prince, unexcited by any popular
invitation, he resolved to investigate all the abuses of imprisonment;
to visit the abodes of wretchedness and infection; and to prove himself
the friend of the friendless, in every country that the limits of his
advanced life would allow him to examine. Against such an enterprize,
projected by such an individual, what forcible arguments might be urged,
not only by every selfish passion, but even by that prudence, and that
reason, which are allowed to regulate an elevated mind! How plausibly
did Friendship exclaim to Howard, 'Your projects are unquestionably
noble; but they are above the execution of any individual: you are
unarmed with authority; you have the wish to do great good, but the
power of doing little! Consider the probable issue of the
undertaking!--You will see a few hapless wretches, and tell their
condition to the inattentive world; perhaps perish yourself from
contagion, before you have time to tell it; and leave your afflicted
friends to lament your untimely fate, and the ungrateful Publick to
deride your temerity!' What force of intellect, what dignity of soul
were required to prevent a mortal from yielding to remonstrances so
engaging! The divine energy of Genius and of Virtue enabled HOWARD to
foresee, that the sanctity of his pursuit would supply him with strength
and powers far superior to all human authority:--His piercing mind
comprehended that there are enormities of such a nature, that to survey
and to reveal them is to effect their correction.--He felt that his
sincere compassion for the oppressed, and his ardent desire to pro
mote
perfect justice, would serve him as a perpetual antidote against the
poison of fear.--He felt that in the darkness of dungeons he should want
no associates, no guards to defend him against the outrages of detected
extortion, or suspicious brutality.--He felt, that as his purpose was
heavenly, the powers of Heaven would be displayed in his support; that
iniquity and oppression would not dare to lift a hand against him,
though they knew it was the business of his life to annihilate their
sway in their most secret dominion. How admirably did the progress of
his travels evince and justify the pure and enlightened confidence of
his spirit! All dangers, all difficulties, vanish before his gentleness,
his regularity, his perseverance. Insolence and ferocity seem to turn,
at his approach, into docility and respect. Every hardship he endures,
every step he advances, in his wide and laborious career of Beneficence,
instead of impairing his strength, invigorates his frame; instead of
diminishing his influence, increases the utility of his conduct, by
making the world acquainted with the sanctity of his character. Witness,
ye various regions of the earth! with what surprize, delight, and
veneration, ye beheld an unarmed, and unassuming traveller instructing
you in the sublime science of mitigating human misery, and giving you a
matchless example of tenderness and magnanimity! O, England! thou
generous country! ever enamoured of glory, contemplate in this, the most
perfect of thy illustrious sons; contemplate those virtues, and that
honour, in which thy parental spirit may most happily exult!--What
spectacle can be more flattering to thy native, thy honest pride, than
to behold the proudest potentates of distant nations listening with
pleasure to a private Englishman; and learning, from his researches, how
to relieve the most injured of their subjects! how to abolish the
enormities of perverted Justice! To form a complete account of the good
arising to the world from the life and labours of Howard, would be a
task beyond
 the limits of any human mind: an exact statement of the
benefits he has conferred upon society, could be rendered only by the
attendant Spirit whom Providence commissioned to watch over him, and who
might discern, by the powers of supernatural vision, what pregnant
sources of public calamity he crushed in the seed, and what future
virtues, in various individuals, he may draw into the service of mankind
by the attraction of his example.

"Of good, more immediately visible, which his exertions produced, there
is abundant evidence in his own country. In the wide circle of his
foreign excursion, what nation, what city, does not bear some
conspicuous traces of his intrepid and indefatigable beneficence! Of the
astonishing length to which his zeal and perseverance extended, we have
the most ingenuous and satisfactory narration in those singularly
meritorious volumes which he has given to the world. In these we behold
the minute detail of labours to which there is nothing similar, or
second, in the history of public virtue; and for which there could be no
adequate reward but in the beatitude of Heaven. An eloquent Enthusiast,
whose genius was nearly allied to frenzy, has expressed a desire to
present himself before the tribunal of the Almighty Judge, with a
volume in his hand, in which he had recorded his own thoughts and
actions: if such an idea could be suitable to the littleness of man, if
it could become any mortal of faculties so limited to make such an
offering to the great Fountain of all intelligence, that mortal must
assuredly be Howard: for where could we find another individual, not
professedly inspired, who might present to his Maker a record of labours
so eminently directed by Piety and Virtue! a book, addressed to mankind,
without insulting their weakness, or flattering their passions! a book,
whose great object was to benefit the world, without seeking from it any
kind of reward! a book, in which the genuine modesty of the Writer is
equal to his unexampled beneficence! The mind of Howard was singularly
a
nd sublimely free from the common and dangerous passion for applause:
that passion which, though taken altogether, it is certainly beneficial
to the interests of mankind, yet frequently communicates inquietude and
unsteadiness to the pursuits of Genius and Virtue. As human praise was
never the object of his ambition, so he has nobly soared above it. There
appear, in different ages upon the Earth, certain elevated spirits, who,
by the sublimity of their conceptions, and the magnanimity of their
conduct, attain a degree of glory which can never be reached by the
keenest followers of Fame--They seek not panegyricks; and panegyricks
can add nothing to their honour. The Eulogies have perished which were
devoted by the luxuriant genius of Tully, and by the laconic spirit of
Brutus, to the public virtue of Cato; yet the name of that illustrious
Roman is still powerful in the world, and excites in every cultivated
mind, an animating idea of independent integrity. The name of Howard has
superior force, and a happier effect. It is a sound, at which the
strings of humanity will vibrate with exultation in many millions of
hearts. Through the various nations that he visited, the mere echo of
his name will be sufficient to awaken that noblest sensibility, which at
once softens and elevates the soul. Every warm hearted and worthy
individual who mentions Howard will glow with an honest, a generous
satisfaction, in feeling himself the fellow-creature of such a man.
Wherever the elegant arts are established, they will contend in raising
memorials to his honour. Indeed, the globe itself may be considered as
his Mausoleum; and the inhabitants of every prison it contains, as
groups of living statues that commemorate his virtue. There is no class
of mankind by whom his memory ought not to be cherished, because all are
interested in those evils (so pernicious to society! so dangerous to
life!) which he was ever labouring to lessen or exterminate. It might be
wished, that different communities should separately devise some
different tri
bute of respect to him whose character and conduct is so
interesting to all: not for the sake of multiplying vain and useless
offerings to the dead, but to impress with more energy and extent his
ennobling remembrance on the heart and soul of the living. It is hardly
possible to present too frequently to the human mind the image of a man
who lived only to do good. I mean not merely such a resemblance of his
form as Art may execute with materials almost as perishable as the image
of human clay, but such an impression of his soul as may have a more
lasting influence on the life and conduct of his admirers, such as,
diffusing among them a portion of his spirit, may in some measure
perpetuate his existence.

"By this community, I am confident, such public honours will be paid to
HOWARD, as may be most suitable to the peculiar interest which it
becomes us to take in his glory. What these honours shall be is a point
to be settled by this liberal and enlightened Assembly, which assuredly
will not fail to remember that he suggested to Legal Authority her
omissions and defects with the modest and endearing tenderness of a
Friend; that he laboured in the service of Justice with that
intelligence, fortitude, and zeal, which her votaries cannot too warmly
admire, or too gratefully acknowledge."

The President arose as he thus ended his speech; and the members of the
Assembly seemed beginning to confer among themselves; but what debates
ensued, or what measure was adopted, I am unable to tell, as my
visionary Guides immediately hurried me to the adjoining Temple.

This second structure, though less extensive and less solid than the
first, was more attractive to the eye, as it abounded with scientifical
and diversified decorations. The Assembly consisted of men, who appeared
to me equally remarkable for keenness of intellect and elegance of
manners. The seat of pre eminence among them was filled by a person who
possessed in a very uncommon degree these two valuable qualities, so
happily conducive to medical utility and medical
 distinction. Though
left a young orphan, without patrimony, and obliged to struggle with
early disadvantages, he raised himself by meritorious exertion to the
head of a profession in which opulence is generally the just attendant
on knowledge and reputation. But neither opulence, nor his long
intercourse with sickness and death, have hardened the native tenderness
of his heart; and I had lately known him shed tears of regret on the
untimely fate of an amiable patient, whom his consummate skill and
attention were unable to save.

Thus strongly prepossessed in his favour, I was delighted to observe
that he was preparing to address the Assembly in the moment we entered.
My celestial Guides smiled on each other in perceiving my satisfaction;
and being placed by them instantaneously in a commodious situation, I
heard the following discourse; which the character I have described
delivered with an ease and refined acuteness peculiar to himself, never
raising his voice above the pitch of polite and spirited conversation:

"I am persuaded, that every individual to whom I have now the happiness
of speaking, will readily agree with me in this sentiment, that we
cannot possibly do ourselves more honour as a Fraternity than by
considering HOWARD as an Associate: assuredly, there is no class of men
who may more justly presume to cherish his name and character with a
fraternal affection. In proportion as we are accustomed to contemplate,
to pity, and to counteract, the sufferings of Nature, the more are we
enabled and inclined to estimate, to love, and to revere, a being so
compassionate and beneficent. If Physicians are, what I once heard them
called by a lively friend, the Soldiers of Humanity, engaged in a
perpetual, and too often, alas! unsuccessful conflict against the
enemies of life; HOWARD is not only entitled to high rank in our corps,
but he is the very Caesar of this hard, this perilous, and, let me add,
this most honourable warfare. Perhaps the ambition of the great Roman
Commander, insatiate and sanguinary as it w
as, did not contribute more
to the torment and destruction of the human race, than the charity of
the English Philanthropist has contributed to its relief and
preservation. Of this we are very certain, the splendid and
indefatigable Hero of Slaughter and Vain-glory did not traverse a more
extensive field, nor expose himself more courageously to personal
danger, than our meek and unostentatious Hero of Medical Benevolence. In
point of true magnanimity, I apprehend the spirit of Caesar would very
willingly confess, that his own celebrated attempts to reduce Gaul and
Britain were low and little achievements, when compared to the
unexampled efforts by which Howard endeavoured to exterminate or subdue
(those enemies more terrific) the Gaol Fever, and the Plague.

"But leaving it to more able and eloquent panegyrists to celebrate the
originality, the boldness, and all the various merit of his
philanthropic exertions, I shall confine myself to a few remarks, and
chiefly professional ones, on his invaluable character. It appears to me
highly worthy of observation, that Howard, before he entered on his
grand projects of Public Benevolence, was subject to those little, but
depressive variations of health which have betrayed many a
valetudinarian into habits of inaction and inutility. Happily for
himself, and for mankind, this excellent person surmounted a
constitutional bias to indolence and retirement. The consequence
sequence was, he became a singular example of activity and vigour. His
powers, and enjoyments of bodily and mental health, augmented in
proportion to the extensive utility of his pursuits.

"Beneficial as his life has been to the world, his memory may be still
more so. It may prove a perpetual blessing to mankind, if it dissipates,
as it ought to do, a weak and common prejudice, which often operates as
a palsy upon the first idea of a great and generous undertaking. The
prejudice I mean is a hasty persuasion, frequently found in the most
amiable minds, that some peculiar strength of nerve, some rare mechanis
m
of frame, and extraordinary assemblage of mental powers, are absolutely
requisite for the execution of any noble design. How greatly does it
redound to the true glory of Howard to have given in his successful
labours the fullest refutation of a prejudice, so inimical to the
interest and the honour of human-nature! a prejudice, by whose
influence, to use the words of our great Poet,

 "--The native hue of Resolution
 Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of Fear,
 And enterprizes of great pith and moment,
 With this regard, their currents turn awry
 And lose the name of action."

"The life and character of Howard, if they are justly considered, may
not only annihilate this pernicious prejudice, but tend to establish an
opposite and consolatory truth. His example may shew us, that some
degrees of bodily weakness and mental depression may be most happily
cured by active exertion in the service of mankind. Perhaps there never
existed a more striking proof how far a noble impulse, communicated to
the mind by a project of extensive Benevolence, may invigorate a frame
not equal in health, strength, and stature, to the common standard of
men. It is a prudential maxim of the celebrated Raleigh, that 'Whosoever
will live altogether out of himself, and study other men's humours,
shall never be unfortunate;' a maxim, which the example of Howard might
almost teach us to convert into a medical aphorism by saying, 'Whosoever
will live altogether out of himself, and consult other men's wants, and
calamities, shall never be unhealthy.' It is delightful to those, who
detest the debasing tenets of a selfish philosophy, to see the happy
influence of opposite ideas; to observe (what Physicians have frequent
opportunities of observing), that as a selfish turn of mind often
attracts and encreases the malignity of sickness, so an unselfish, a
compassionate spirit has a natural tendency to escape or subdue it. What
can be more pleasing to those, who assert and esteem the dignity of
human-nature, than to see, that the having lost all thou
ghts of self,
and having acted in direct opposition to selfish principles, has
promoted even the personal advantage of a generous individual? From such
a series of philanthropic labour and peril, as a selfish and timid mind
might esteem it frenzy to encounter, Howard derived not only his
unrivalled and immortal reputation, but the perfect restoration of
enfeebled health; not to mention those high gratifications of the heart
and conscience, which are superior to all the enjoyments both of health
and glory. With such temperance in diet, that his daily food would
appear to most people not sufficient to support the common functions of
life, he chearfully sustained the hardships of long travel, through
regions where travelling is most difficult and dangerous. With a figure,
voice, and deportment, that seemed to preclude him from all personal
influence and authority; and with no mental acquisitions, except those
which are common to every cultivated mind, he secured to himself not
only universal admiration, but, I may venture to say, the just and moral
idolatry of the world. So invigorating are projects of extensive
Beneficence! so powerful is the energy of Public Virtue!

"Never, indeed, was the astonishing influence of plain and simple
goodness more strikingly displayed, than in the deference and respect
which this private and meek individual received, not only from foreign
and imperious Rulers of the Earth, but from hardened and atrocious
wretches, on whom Justice herself could hardly make any mental
impression, though armed with all the splendour, and all the violence of
power. Two particular examples of the influence I am speaking of, I
shall mention here, not only as honourable to the prime object of our
regard, but as they may suggest to contemplative minds some useful
ideas, by shewing how far the mere weight of an upright and benevolent
character alone may give to the most callous nerves a trembling
sensibility, and awaken the most ferocious spirit to self-correction.

"When our indefatigable Visitor of prisons
 was in Russia, he beheld, in
public, the punishment of the knoot severely administered by a strong
and stern executioner.

"On the following day he waited on this man, to request from him various
information. The executioner attended him obsequiously; but this
athletic savage, though trained to acts of cruelty, and conscious he had
a legal sanction for the barbarous violence he had exerted, could not
behold without shuddering the meek and gentle Missionary of Compassion.

"The second and more memorable example of his singular influence
occurred in a prison of his own country, and relates to an outrageous
female delinquent. A corrupt and ferocious woman is, perhaps, the most
intractable fiend that human benevolence can attempt to reform; but even
this difficulty the mild and powerful character of HOWARD
accomplished.

"In one of our Western gaols, he found an unhappy female loaded with
heavy irons: on his appearance she entreated him to obtain for her the
removal of these galling fetters. Upon enquiry, he found that many
endeavours had been made to keep this turbulent offender in proper
subjection without the severity of chains; but, after repeated promises
of amendment on milder treatment, she had obliged the keeper to have
recourse to this extreme by relapsing into the most flagrant and
insufferable contempt of decency and order. Upon this information,
HOWARD said mildly to the unhappy criminal, 'I wish to relieve you, but
you put it out of my power; for I should lose all the little credit I
have, if I exerted it for offenders so hardened and so turbulent.' 'I
know,' replied the intractable delinquent, 'I know that I have a proud
and rebellious spirit; but if I give a promise to so good a man as you
are, I can and I will command it.' On this firm assurance of
reformation, the benevolent HOWARD became a kind of surety for her
future peaceable conduct on the removal of her irons; and he had the
inexpressible delight to find, on his next visit to the prisoners of
this gaol, that the outrageous and ungovernable cul
prit, for whom he had
ventured to answer, was become the most orderly among them.

"I could wish, for the moral interest of mankind, that it were possible
to obtain a minute account of the services rendered to the calamitous
spirit of many a forsaken individual by the singular charity of HOWARD.
What could be more instructive than to observe how his Beneficence
encreased by its exertion and success; while his desire of befriending
the wretched became, as it were, the vital spirit that gave strength and
duration to his own existence!

"If we contemplate with pleasure the singular re-establishment of bodily
health, which HOWARD derived from his active philanthropy; it may be
still more pleasing to recollect, that it also afforded him an
efficacious medicine for an afflicted mind. Perhaps it was to shew the
full efficacy of this virtue in all its lustre, that Heaven allotted to
this excellent personage a domestic calamity, which appears (to borrow
an expression from a great writer) 'of an unconscionable size to human
strength.'

"That capricious and detestable spirit of Detraction, which on Earth
never fails to persecute superior Virtue, has not scrupled to assert
that the affliction, to which I allude, was the mere consequence of
paternal austerity. The Earth itself, though frequently accused of being
eager to receive ideas that may abase the eminent, could hardly admit a
calumny so groundless and irrational. In this purer spot it is utterly
needless to prove the innocence of an exalted being, to whom we are only
solicitous to pay that sincere tribute of praise and veneration which we
are conscious he deserves. In truth, this admirable Character seemed to
illustrate the philosophical maxim, that mildness is the proper
companion of true magnanimity. He had a gentleness of manners, that was
peculiar to himself; and, instead of possessing such imperious severity
of spirit as might produce the calamity I allude to, he was really
endued with such native tenderness of heart as must have sunk under it,
had he not found in
 the unexampled services that he rendered to the
world, an antidote to the poison of domestic infelicity. It is among the
most gracious ordinances of Providence, that man is sure to find the
most powerful relief for his own particular afflictions, in his
endeavours to alleviate the sufferings of others. And permit me to add,
it is this beneficent law of our nature, that gives a peculiar charm
and dignity to the Medical Profession; a profession singularly endeared
to the affectionate HOWARD! not only as its compassionate and active
spirit was the guide of his pursuits, but as one of its prime ornaments
was his favourite associate and his bosom-friend. If different classes
of men are to vie with each other, as it may certainly become them to
do, in rendering various honours to this their matchless Benefactor; I
hope we shall display, with the most affectionate spirit, the deep
interest that we ought to take in his glory. I think it very desirable
that every Physician should possess a Medal of HOWARD, not only to shew
his veneration for the great Philanthropist, but to derive personal
advantage from such a mental Amulet, if I may hazard the expression.
Most of us, in the exercise of Medicine, feel at particular moments that
our spirits are too sensibly affected by the objects we survey; that
scenes of misery and infection depress and alarm: at such a time how
might it rekindle the energy of our minds to contemplate a little effigy
of HOWARD! to recollect, that all the trouble and danger that we
encounter, in the practice of a lucrative profession, are trifling in
the extreme, when compared to the labour and the peril, which this
wonderful man most willingly took upon himself, without looking forward
to any reward but the approbation of Heaven!

"I mention not a Medal as a new idea--it has been already in
contemplation; and a motto for it suggested, which applies with such
singular force and propriety to the person whom it is designed to
commemorate, that perhaps the wide range of classical literature could
not affor
d another passage so strikingly apposite to a character so
extraordinary--

 "Stupuere patres tentamina tanta,
 Conatusque tuos: pro te Reus ipse timebat."--

"I must confess, however, that I wish for another, which may seem to
bind him more closely to us in a medical point of view. But it is time
to leave the different members of our Fraternity at full liberty to
propose any marks of distinction that they wish to suggest.--It is
sufficient for me to have reminded you of a truth, which I am confident
we all equally feel, that, while we justly consider ourselves as
students in the extensive school of Humanity, it becomes us to look up
to HOWARD, with a laudable veneration, as the Prince and Patron of our
Order."

On the conclusion of this discourse, my Guides immediately conducted me,
with their former celerity and kindness, to the only remaining
Structure. It was the most extensive, and, from the hallowed majesty of
its appearance, the most admirable of the three. In approaching it, I
paused a moment in aweful surprise at the solemnity of the fabrick: the
most lovely and communicative of my two aetherial conductors smiled upon
me, and said, "You will find here Ministers of GOD from every Christian
country; but only those who consider Evangelical Charity as the essence
of true Religion, and who are disposed to honour, in the favourite
object of your veneration, the most signal example of that virtue, which
the present age has beheld." "I hope then," I eagerly replied, "I shall
have the delight of hearing, on this occasion, the most eloquent of our
English Bishops." On this exclamation, my kind informer regarded me with
that lively and soothing air with which intelligent Benevolence corrects
mistaken simplicity, and thus continued to instruct me with united
vivacity and tenderness.

"Earthly distinctions, you know, are of little moment in the sight of
Heaven. You will hear no Prelate; and perhaps you may feel surprised and
indignant, when you observe how very few of your Mitred Countrymen are
to be seen in this Ass
embly; but you will not retain in this hallowed
spot that most common of human infirmities, a tendency to censure or to
suspicion. You will recollect that this Convocation contains only those
charitable men, who are peculiarly disposed to honour your recent model
of this Christian virtue. Other good men may exist, who, from motives of
innocent mistake, or of mere inadvertency, may fail to exhibit that
animated regard to his exemplary character, which assuredly it has
merited from all men, and which the Ministers of Religion may most
properly display.

"One of these," continued my Director, "you are now going to hear; not,
indeed, a Dignitary of your Church, yet a Divine of Talents, Learning,
and Charity. He was led, by a laudable warmth of heart, to suggest to
your Country the first idea of paying a public tribute of veneration to
the signal virtue of Howard; and has acquired from this circumstance a
title to commemorate here the merit, to which he was eager to render
such early justice on earth. But it is time for us to attend him."

We immediately entered the temple; and I beheld an Ecclesiastic rising
at that moment to address a very numerous Assembly of his order, that
seemed to contain Christians of every sect, and Ministers of every
degree. The person preparing to speak was distinguished by a majestic
comeliness of person, though he appeared to have passed the middle age
of life; and with a powerful elocution he delivered the following
discourse.

"The Righteous are bold as a Lion."

Proverbs, chap, xxviii, ver. i.

"In these few words, my brethren, we have a passage of Scripture, that
served as a favourite maxim, or leading truth, to the admirable
personage whose glorious qualities it is now both my duty and my delight
to recall to your remembrance. The words, indeed, are so consonant to
that exalted spirit which his life displayed, that they almost appear to
me an epitome of his character. Let us consider Courage as one of his
principal endowments! To contemplate so pure and resolute a being in
this point
 of view, may lead us to form just ideas on the true nature of
this primary virtue, on the sacred source from whence it should proceed,
and the sublime end to which it should aspire. How large a portion of
folly, vice, and wickedness, have arisen from mere mistakes concerning
this most important of human qualities! so important, that the real
dignity of man can only rise in proportion as this virtue is perfectly
understood, and properly cherished! In the same proportion, let me add,
our courageous Philanthropist will be found entitled to the praise of
every upright mind, to the homage of every feeling heart.

"If we take the word Courage" in the most common and simple sense of
that term, as a generous and noble contempt of personal hardship and
danger; who has given more numerous or more striking examples of such
brave contempt! Or if we follow the definition of Courage given us by a
profound, an eloquent, and philanthropic Writer, namely, that it is a
just estimate of our own powers; who is there among the most signal
Benefactors of mankind, not professedly inspired, that ever formed an
estimate of what he might achieve in the most glorious field of
enterprize, at once so difficult, and so true, so humble, and so grand.

"With every apparent disadvantage, Howard conceived it possible that his
endeavours might correct the abuses, and mitigate the sufferings of men,
in various nations of the world. Whence happened it, that a mortal, so
visibly weak and gentle, shrunk not from an idea so pregnant with
difficulty and peril! It was because, 'The Righteous are bold as a
Lion.' It was because he felt the strongest internal conviction of this
animating truth, that, while Heaven blesses a man with health sufficient
to pursue a benevolent and magnanimous design, the vigour of his mind,
and most probably his powers of doing good, will be proportioned to the
firmness of his faith, and the sincerity of his virtue.

"Many achievements of beneficent Courage have undoubtedly been
accomplished by men influenced by no motive but 
that generous love of
glory which is so frequently the predominant passion of an active and
ardent mind: but the virtues that arise from this source are as
unsteady, and as precarious, as the reward they pursue. He who acts
only as a candidate for the applause of mankind, will find his spirit
vary with all the variations in the ever-changing atmosphere of popular
opinion. He will be subject to hot and cold fits of action and
inactivity, of confidence and distrust, in proportion as the illusive
vapour, that he follows, may either sparkle or fade before him. Hence
proceeded much of that inconsistency and weakness, which appear in some
of the most enlightened, and exalted characters of the Pagan
world.--Wanting a purer light from Heaven, the most radiant spirits of
antiquity were bewildered; one in particular, the mildest and most
undaunted of antient Worthies, who had a sufficient portion of heroic
philanthropy to prefer the benefit of mankind to every selfish
consideration, had yet his hours of diffidence and despondency. On a
final review of his own generous labours, he is supposed to have
questioned the very existence of Virtue, though he had made it the idol
of his life; a striking proof, that the temperate and invariable energy
of soul, which alone perhaps deserves the name of true Courage, can only
proceed from a fuller knowledge and love of GOD; from the animating
assurance, that, however we may prosper or fail in the earthly success
of our endeavours to do good, the merit of the attempt is registered in
Heaven; and we secure to ourselves the everlasting approbation of our
Almighty Parent, in proportion as we approach towards that blessed model
of Perfect Benevolence, who has taught us, by his divine example, to
compassionate and to relieve the sufferings of the wretched. From this
source flowed the courageous beneficence of HOWARD: and how delightful
it is to observe that the force, the extent, the utility, and the lustre
of the stream, has gloriously corresponded to the height and purity of
the fountain!


"The Sensualist and the Sceptic may, indeed, deride the conduct of a
man, who sacrificed all the common pleasures of life, and sought for no
recompence but in the favour of Heaven. It may be said that an illusive
fervor of mind has hurried men, in all periods of the world, into
singular and wild exertions, which excite the wonder of the passing
hour, and are afterwards either deservedly forgotten, or only recalled
to notice by Reason and Philosophy, to caution the restless and
impetuous spirit of man against all similar excesses.

"But the pursuits of Howard, though they had all that sublime energy
which so often distinguished the projects of Superstition, were so far
from being influenced by any superstitious propensity, that perhaps they
cannot appear to more advantage than by being brought into comparison,
or contrast, not with the sluggish piety of sequestered Monks, but with
the bold and splendid feats of the most active and enterprising
Fanaticism. Allow me, therefore, to recall to your thoughts those
distant ages, when every ardent spirit in Christendom was inflamed with
a passionate desire to deliver the Christian pilgrims of Palestine from
the oppression of Infidels! Figure to yourselves the whole force of
Europe collecting its violence, like a troubled sea, and preparing to
pour a terrific and destructive inundation over the Holy Land! Behold
the strong and the weak, the ambitious and the humble, pursuing the same
object! Behold assembled Kings and their People, Soldiers and Priests,
the servants of Earth and Heaven rushing, with equal ardour, to rescue
the Sepulchre of Christ, and to drown all the innumerable enemies of
their Faith in an universal deluge of blood! In this scene we have the
sublimest spectacle, perhaps, that was ever exhibited by mistaken piety
and misguided valour. The love of God, by which this heroic multitude
was professedly impelled, was probably in many minds as sincere as it
was ardent. The religious spirit of their enterprize can still animate
and transport us in the song of the
 Poet: and in the more rational page
of History, while we justly lament the errors of their devotion, we
admire the force and perseverance of their courage.

"To the sublime fortitude of these collected warriors, let us compare
the mild magnanimity of HOWARD. Let us survey him setting forth for an
expedition as perilous as theirs; not as the Soldier of Fanaticism, but
as the Pilgrim of Humanity! Attachment to GOD, and resolution which no
hardship, no danger, no difficulty can daunt, are equally conspicuous in
the sanguinary Fanatic and the compassionate Philanthropist: but how
widely different are the prime earthly objects of their pursuits! The
fierce Crusaders invaded Asia with a desire to exterminate the Infidels.
The benevolent HOWARD was led into the same quarter of the globe, and
into perils more deadly than those of war, by a wish to exterminate, or
rather to restrain, the ravages of that terrific enemy to human life,
the Plague.

"He had conceived an idea, that, as this most alarming of mortal
maladies has been often strangely neglected by the sluggish and
superstitious inhabitants of the East, it might be possible by a calm
and courageous examination of its nature and its progress, to set limits
to its rage; and particularly to secure his own country from a future
visitation of a calamity, against which the fearless and eager spirit of
Commerce appears not to have established a sufficient precaution. For
the prospect of accomplishing public good, so devoutly to be wished, he
nobly thought it a trifling sacrifice to hazard the little remnant of
his advanced life; and, however men or nations may differ in policy or
religion, whereever there is a human spirit sufficiently pure and
enlightened to estimate public virtue, the sentiments and the conduct of
HOWARD must secure to his memory the fondest veneration. There is a
perfection and felicity in his character that appears supremely laudable
in every point of view. If, abstracted from all religious
considerations, we regard him only as a citizen who devoted 
himself to
the service of his country, the brightest records of Antiquity afford us
no parallel to his merit. Had he lived in those early times, the
generous enthusiasm of the antient world would have idolized his name.
Philosophy and Genius would have found, in his benevolent labours, the
most ample theme for instruction, and the purest subject for universal
panegyrick. They would have celebrated him as a benefactor to mankind,
who had built a new portico to the Temple of Glory superior to the dome
itself. They would have preferred the beneficent Philanthropist to the
dazzling Conqueror, to the fascinating Demagogue, to the attractive
Sophist; and all the various idols of public praise. But as Antiquity
exhibits no character of such unclouded lustre, we have great reason to
conclude, that such a character could owe its existence only to the pure
and sublime spirit of our Christian Faith. Let us, therefore,
contemplate HOWARD as a Christian! it is by considering him in this
light, that we shall feel ourselves most happily related to his virtues,
and most delightfully interested in the honours they receive.

"In the poor and calamitous objects of his regard, in the gentleness
and purity of his manners, in his modest and magnanimous refusal of
earthly honours, in the wide extent and courageous perseverance of his
charity, we cannot fail to discern how richly he was endowed with the
genuine spirit of that pure and sublime Religion which has the divine
prerogative of converting weakness into strength, and of giving to
Humility the influence of Power. There is not a feature in the
character, there is hardly an action in the life of this exemplary
personage, that does not mark him as a true servant of CHRIST. And may
we not presume the blessed Author of our faith, in supplying us in these
dissolute times with a recent example of such astonishing and unlimited
beneficence, is graciously pleased to afford us a new motive to prize
and to cherish that animating faith, which could form, in an age like
the present, a charact
er so wonderfully entitled to the veneration of
the world? The spirit of Christianity is so visible in the conduct of
HOWARD, that the prime objects of his attention might be thought to have
been suggested to him by the very words in which our blessed Lord
announces to the heirs of eternal glory the source of their
beatitude--'Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared
for you from the foundation of the world; for I was an hungry, and ye
gave me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and
ye took me in; naked, and ye cloathed me; I was sick, and ye visited me;
I was in prison, and ye came unto me.'

"Is it possible for us, my Brethren, to recall to our memory these holy
words without feeling at the same time, in the most forcible degree, all
the Christian merits of HOWARD? Can we fail to admire and to venerate
the unexampled ardour, purity, and perseverance, with which he exercised
the peculiar virtue so distinguished by our Lord?--While we behold him
sublimely pre-eminent in this Christian perfection, shall we not cherish
the delightful idea, that his heavenly rewards will be finally adequate
to his unrivaled labours on earth? Shall not those who have loved him
exult in the persuasion, that in that great and aweful day, when the
living and the dead are to receive their everlasting doom; when the
princes and the great ones of the earth may be confronted with those
whom they have persecuted and oppressed, or whom they have failed to
relieve; when the proudest Sons of Learning, Genius, or Wit, may shrink
at the superior lustre of those whom they have ridiculed and reviled;
HOWARD will shine encircled by thousands, who will gratefully plead for
his beatitude in those blessed words of our Redeemer, 'I was in prison,
and he came unto me!'

"Yes, my Brethren, the day will assuredly come, when the servant so
signally faithful will be called to a reward, surpassing the utmost
reach of our conception, by the voice of his Righteous Master--then, and
then only, will praise be fully prop
ortioned to his transcendant merit;
when this consummate Christian is raised to glory by the glorified
Messiah, when his pure spirit exults in the commendation of his GOD.

"The imperfect efforts, that mankind may make to do honour to such a
Being, cannot, indeed, so much promote his glory, as they may conduce to
the interest of human nature. Subject as it has been to the wildest
excesses, human panegyric, in all its shapes, may be safely devoted to a
personage, whom it is hardly possible to praise with sincerity, without
feeling our disposition improved. In a beneficent, a sublime, and truly
religious character, there is a sort of magnetic virtue, which to those
who are affectionately drawn towards it, though only in idea,
communicates a portion of itself. Hence arises, what we cannot too
fondly cherish, the delight and the utility of commemorating departed
worth. If its title to commemoration be justly proportioned to its
magnitude, its singularity, and extent; not only various individuals,
but different Nations, will become rivals in promoting the fame of
HOWARD. As the glorious qualities, which his life displayed, are equally
open to the emulation of the great and the humble; every class of human
creatures is peculiarly interested in his praise. If to honour his
memory may be thought to belong to any one community more than to
another; surely, my Brethren, we shall not fail to assume to ourselves
so pleasing a duty, so honourable a distinction. Well, indeed, might the
insulting enemies of our Faith reproach us with a supine and disgraceful
inattention to the real interest of Virtue, and the true glory of
Religion, could we suffer any other order of men to surpass the
Ministers of CHRIST in a meritorious zeal to honour this faithful
servant of Heaven, whose life exhibits a lesson more instructive and
sublime than all the eloquence of the Pulpit! a Christian, who has shewn
us, in the most signal manner, how practicable it is to follow, in
succouring the distrest, not only the precepts, but the example of our
GO
D."

In the moment that this benevolent Divine concluded his address to his
attentive brethren, my kind and vigilant Guides removed me from the
temple.--I was now led into a scene entirely different from those we
left. It was an open and verdant plain, with a few elevations in the
ground, that afforded advantageous views of the whole extensive spot.
Here, instead of beholding the Ministers of Peace, I found myself
encircled by the multitudinous votaries of War. It appeared to me that
all the military and all the naval servants of our country were
collected together, and each different division of these well-appointed
and well-looking men, that formed a pleasing spectacle alone, was
attended by a crowd of miscellaneous spectators, more numerous than
itself: yet in all this immense multitude there was no sign of tumult or
confusion. They were ranged in such a manner as to form a wide circular
area in the midst of them. I was stationed on a little eminence within
this area; and in the same vacant space I beheld a party of veteran
Commanders, both Military and Naval, who seemed to have been conferring
together, but separated by the direction of my aetherial Conductors, to
address, in different parts of this extensive field, the different
companies assigned to their care. What they respectively said in their
separate departments I was unable to discover, as I only heard
distinctly one gallant Veteran, whose character was particularly dear to
me. This consummate officer has raised himself by merit alone from the
humblest rank of military life to a station of the highest honour and
trust. His modesty is as singular as his fortune: passing close to me,
with a gracious salutation, he approached a very fine orderly corps of
foot, who looked up to him with a sort of filial respect, while he spoke
to them the few following words:

"As bravery and compassion are the characteristics of good Soldiers, you
cannot want, my friends, any long exhortation from me to honour the
memory of HOWARD; the most resolute and the most compass
ionate man that
has lived in our time. Though he was not of our profession, as his life
was devoted to mitigate the united horrors of captivity and sickness,
those worst of enemies to the spirit of a soldier, you will undoubtedly
feel that he has a peculiar claim to our most grateful and generous
regard."

This speech was followed by a burst of acclamation from those to whom it
was particularly addressed. Similar shouts of applause resounded from
different quarters of the spacious field, while our aetherial
attendants, Gratitude and Admiration, who followed each speaker at the
close of each address to different divisions of this innumerable
assembly, displayed, to each division in its turn, an extensive sketch
of a simple but magnificent mausoleum to the memory of Howard, in the
form of an English lazaretto. On the first display of this striking and
worthy monument, the applauding multitude seemed to exult in the
prospect of its completion. But I soon observed, to my inexpressible
concern, that while Gratitude and Admiration were busy in exciting the
various ranks of the vast assembly, to accomplish this favourite design,
they were followed by two earthy fiends of a dark and malignant
influence: these were Detraction and Indifference, who shed such a chill
and depressive mist around them, that all the ardour of the Assembly
seemed to sink. Among the miscellaneous crowds that were visible between
the divisions of the martial host, there ran a murmur of obloquy and
derision against the pure object of public veneration. He was reviled as
a whimsical Reformer, and a rash Enthusiast, who had absurdly
sacrificed his life in a vain and fantastic pursuit. This base spirit of
calumnious malignity was not communicated to any one division of the
martial multitude; but the universal zeal for the glory of HOWARD seemed
to be almost annihilated; even Gratitude and Admiration appeared to grow
faint in their darling purpose. During their languor, they suffered
their sketch of the Mausoleum to be gradually stolen from their hands
,
and to drop upon the ground. At this moment a sudden and violent
earthquake was felt through all the extensive scene. The centre of the
vacant area opened--it threw forth a phantom terrific and enormous--its
magnitude seemed to grow upon the sight; its lineaments were shrouded
from our view by an immense mantle, on which were represented a
thousand different and hideous images of Death. Its name was
Contagion--it rushed forward with an indescribable movement. Dismay and
confusion overwhelmed all that quarter of the crowded scene, that was
particularly threatened by its first advance. The affrighted multitude
rolled back like a tumultuous sea. The horrid spectre stopt; and left a
wide interval between itself and the retiring host. A ray of heavenly
light illumined the vacant space. I fixed my eye on the brilliant spot,
and soon beheld the meek and gentle form of HOWARD advancing, without
fear or arrogance, towards the terrific Phantom. With an untrembling
hand he seized the dark folds of its extensive mantle, and seemed
animated with the hope of annihilating the Monster. In the instant, a
burst of celestial splendor was spread over the gloomy plain. The Angel
of Retribution descended; and snatching the consummate Philanthropist to
his bosom, he rose again; while all the astonished multitude, now
reviving from their terror, gazed only on the celestial apparition; and
heard the reascending Seraph thus address the beneficent spirit now
committed to his care:

"Thou faithful servant of Heaven! thy hour of recompence is come. Justly
hast thou cautioned mankind not to impute thy conduct to rashness or
enthusiasm. Weak and wavering in their own pursuits of felicity, thou
wilt not wonder to see them so in their sense of thy merit, and their
zeal for thy honour: but I am commissioned to bear thee to that
All-seeing Power, who can alone truly estimate, and perfectly reward thy
desert. I know that the praise of beings, inferior to thy GOD, never
influenced thy life; but the homage of good minds is grateful to the
purest in
habitants of Heaven; and in departing from a world so much
indebted to thy virtue, let it gratify thy perfect spirit to foresee,
that as long as the earth endures, the most enlightened of her sons will
remember and revere thee as one of her sublimest benefactors."

As soon as the divine messenger had ceased to speak, every voice in the
reanimated multitude, that heard him, raised a shout of benediction on
the name of HOWARD. I started in transport at the sound; and the effort
that I made to join the universal acclamation terminated my vision.

Pardon me, thou gentlest and most indulgent of Friends! that, conscious
as I am of the sincerity with which thy pure mind ever wished to avoid
all exuberance of praise, I yet presume to send into the world such a
tribute to thy virtues as thy humility might reject. Let the motives of
the publication atone for all its defects!

This little work is made public, not from a vain expectation, or desire,
in the Writer to obtain any degree of literary distinction; for, if his
wishes and endeavours are successful, the world will not know from what
hand it proceeds.

Thou most revered object of my regard, who art looking down, perhaps,
with compassion on the petty labours of various mortals, now trying to
commemorate thy merit, thou seest that I am influenced by no arrogant
conceit of having praised with peculiar felicity the perfections that I
so ardently admire. No! I am perfectly sensible, that the most worthy
memorial of thy virtues will be found in those pure records of thy
public services which thy own hand has given to the world with all the
amiable and affecting simplicity that distinguished thy character, and
in the more comprehensive composition of some accomplished Biographer,
who may have opportunities and ability to do justice to thy life.

The chief aim of these few and hasty pages is to recall, at this
particular time, to the liberal spirits of our countrymen that generous
ardour with which they embraced the first idea of a public monument to
HOWARD. While the expence
 and dignity of that monument are yet
unsettled, a Writer may consider himself as a friend to national honour,
who endeavours to animate his country to the most extensive display of
her munificence, and her gratitude towards the purest public virtue. May
she justly remember, that, to testify a fond maternal pride in such a
departed son, to manifest and perpetuate esteem for such a character,
is, in truth, to promote the interest of genuine Patriotism, of sublime
Morality, and of perfect Religion!

FINIS.

End of Project Gutenberg's The Eulogies of Howard, by William Hayley

***
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Charlie Kirschner
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

THE WARRIORS

BY ANNA ROBERTSON BROWN LINDSAY PH.D.

AUTHOR OF

WHAT IS WORTH WHILE?
CULTURE AND REFORM
THE VICTORY OF OUR FAITH

PREFACE

This work was begun nearly five years ago. Since then, the whole face of
American history has changed. We have had the Spanish-American War, and
the opening-up of our new possessions. In this period of time Gladstone,
Li Hung Chang, and Queen Victoria have died; there has also occurred the
assassination of the Empress of Austria and of President McKinley. There
has been the Chinese persecution, the destruction of Galveston by storm
and of Martinique by volcanic action. Wireless telegraphy has been
discovered, and the source of the spread of certain fevers. In this time
have been carried on gigantic engineering undertakings,--the
Trans-Siberian Railroad, the Trans-Balkan Railroad, the rebuilding of
New York. We have also looked upon the consolidation of vast forces of
steel, iron, sugar, shipping, and other trusts. We have witnessed an
extraordinary growth of universities, libraries, and higher
schools,--the widespread increase of commerce, the prosperity of
business, the rise in the price of food, and the great coal-strike of
1902. Perhaps never before in the world's history have there been
crowded into five years such dramatic occurrences on the world-stage,
nor such large opportunities for the individual man or woman.

It is interesting for me to notice that since the first outlines of the
book were written, many things then set down as prophecy have now been
fulfilled. It was my purpose, in projecting the essays at what seemed
to me to be the dawn of a great religious era, to help the onward
movement by a few earnest words. History itself has swept the world far
beyond one's dreams, and in completing them, I only ask that they may
stand a further witness to the overwhelming majesty and influence of the
Christian faith.

ANNA ROBERTSON BROWN LINDSAY

_Philadelphia, November_ 1_st_
, 1902

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 I. CHORDS OF AWAKENING:
 THE HIGHER CONQUEST

 II. PRELUDE:
 THE CALL OF JESUS

III. PROCESSIONAL:
 THE CHURCH OF GOD

 IV. THE WORLD-MARCH:
 OF KINGS
 OF PRELATES AND EVANGELISTS
 OF SAGES
 OF TRADERS
 OF WORKERS

I. CHORDS OF AWAKENING: THE HIGHER CONQUEST

 [CUTLER]

 _The Son of God goes forth to war,
 A kingly crown to gain:
 His blood-red banner streams afar:
 Who follows in His train?

 Who best can drink his cup of woe,
 Triumphant over pain;
 Who patient bears his cross below,
 He follows in His train!

 They met the tyrant's brandished steel,
 The lions gory mane;
 They bowed their necks the death to feel:
 Who follows in their train?

 They climbed the steep ascent of heaven
 Through peril, toil, and pain:
 O God, to us may grace be given
 To follow in their train!_

 REGINALD HEBER

The universe is not awry. Fate and man are not altogether at odds. Yet
there is a perpetual combat going on between man and nature, and between
the power of character and the tyranny of circumstance, death, and sin.
The great soul is tossed into the midst of the strife, the longing, and
the aspirations of the world. He rises Victor who is triumphant in some
great experience of the race.

The first energy is combative: the Warrior is the primitive hero. There
are natures to whom mere combat is a joy. Strife is the atmosphere in
which they find their finest physical and spiritual development. In the
early times, there must have been those who stood apart from their
tribesmen in contests of pure athletic skill,--in running, jumping,
leaping, wrestling, in laying on thew and thigh with arm, hand, and
curled fist in sheer delight of action, and of the display of strength.
As foes arose, these athletes of the tribe or clan would be the first to
rush forth to slay the wild beast, to brave the sea and storm, or to
wreak vengeance on assailing tribes. Their valor was their insignia.
Their prowess ranked them. Their exultation was in their freedom
and strength.

Such men did not ask a life of ease. Like T
ortulf the Forester, they
learned "how to strike the foe, to sleep on the bare ground, to bear
hunger and toil, summer's heat and winter's frost,--how to fear nothing
but ill-fame." They courted danger, and asked only to stand as Victors
at the last.

Hence we read of old-world warriors,--of Gog and Magog and the Kings of
Bashan; of the sons of Anak; of Hercules, with his lion-skin and club;
of Beowulf, who, dragging the sea-monster from her lair, plunged beneath
the drift of sea-foam and the flame of dragon-breath, and met the clutch
of dragon-teeth. We read of Turpin, Oliver, and Roland,--the
sweepers-off of twenty heads at a single blow; of Arthur, who slew
Ritho, whose mantle was furred with the beards of kings; of Theodoric
and Charlemagne, and of Richard of the Lion-heart.

There are also Victors in the great Quests of the world,--the Argonauts,
Helena in search of the Holy Rood, the Knights of the Holy Grail, the
Pilgrim Fathers. There are the Victors in the intellectual wrestlings of
the world,--the thinkers, poets, sages; the Victors in great sorrows,
who conquer the savage pain of heart and desolation of spirit which
arise from heroic human grief,--Oedipus and Antigone, Iphigenia,
Perseus, Prometheus, King Lear, Samson Agonistes, Job, and David in his
penitential psalm. And there are the Victors in the yet deeper strivings
of the soul--in its inner battles and spiritual conquests--Milton's
Adam, Paracelsus, Dante, the soul in _The Palace of Art_, Abt Vogler,
Isaiah, Teufelsdroeckh, Paul. To read of such men and women is to be
thrilled by the Titanic possibilities of the soul of man!

The world has come into other and greater battle-days. This is an era of
great spiritual conflicts, and of great triumphs. To-day faith calls the
soul of man to arms. It is a clarion to awake, to put on strength, and
to go forth to Holy War. If there were no fighting work in the Christian
life, much of the intense energy and interest of the race would be
unaroused. There are apathetic natures who do not want to undertake th
e
difficult,--sluggish souls who would rather not stir from their present
position. And there are cowards who run to cover. But there is
in all strong natures the primitive combative instinct,--the
let-us-see-which-is-the-stronger, which delights in contests, which is
undismayed by opposition, and which grows firmer through the warfare
of the soul.

It is this phase of the Christian life which is most needed to-day,--the
warrior-spirit, the all-conquering soul. In entering the Christian life,
one must put out of his heart the expectation that it is to be an easy
life, or one removed from toil and danger. It is preeminently the
adventurous life of the world,--that in which the most happens, as well
as that in which the spiritual possibilities are the greatest. It is a
life full of splendor, of excitement, of trial, of tests of courage and
endurance, and is meant to appeal to those who are the very bravest
and the best.

There are two forms of conquest to which the soul of man is called--the
inner and the outer. The inner is the conquest of the evil within his
own nature; the outer is the struggle against the evil forces of the
world--the constructive task of building up, under warring conditions,
the spiritual kingdom of God.

The real world is far more subtle than we as yet understand. When we
dive down into the deep, sky and air and houses disappear. We enter a
new world--the under-world of water, and things that glide and swim; of
sea-grasses and currents; of flowing waves that lap about the body with
a cool chill; of palpitating color, that, at great depths, becomes a
sort of darkness; of sea-beds of shell and sand, and bits of scattered
wreckage; of ooze and tangled sea-plants, dusky shapes, and
fan-like fins.

Or if we look upward we reach an over-world, where moons and suns are
circling in the heights. What draws them together? What keeps a subtle
distance between them, which they never cross? How do they, age after
age, run a predestined course? We drop a stone. What binds it earthward?
Under our feet run 
magnetic currents that flow from pole to pole. In the
clouds above, there are electric vibrations which cannot be described
in exact terms.

Thus also, in spiritual experiences, there are currents which we cannot
measure or describe. The psychic world is the final world, though its
towers and pinnacles no eye hath seen. If we try to shut out for an hour
the outer world, and descend into the soul-world of the life of man, we
find ourselves in a new environment, and with an outlook over new forms
and powers. We find ourselves in a world of images and attractions, of
impulses and desires, of instincts and attainments. It is not only a
world of separate and individual souls, but each soul is as a thousand;
for within each man there is an inner host contending for mastery, and
everywhere is the uproar of battle and of spiritual strife.

What is the Self that abides in each man? Is it not the consciousness of
existence, together with a consciousness of the power of choice? Our
individuality lies in the fact that we can decide, choose, and rule
among the various contestant impulses of our souls. Herein is the
possibility of victory and also the possibility of defeat.

Looking inward, we find that Self began when man began. We inherit our
dispositions from Adam, as well as from our parents and a long ancestral
line. When the first men and women were created, forces were set in
action which have resulted in this Me that to-day thinks and wills and
loves. Heredity includes savagery and culture, health and disease,
empire and serfdom, hope and despair. Each man can say: "In me rise
impulses that ran riot in the veins of Anak, that belonged to Libyan
slaves and to the Ptolemaic line. I am Aryan and Semite, Roman and
Teuton: alike I have known the galley and the palm-set court of kings.
Under a thousand shifting generations, there was rising the combination
that I to-day am. In me culminates, for my life's day, human history
until now."

Individuality is thus a unique selection and arrangement of what has
been, touched with s
omething--a degree of life--that has not been
before. To rise above heredity is to rise above the downward drag of all
the years. It is not escaping the special sin of one ancestor, but the
sin of all ancestors. _This is the first problem that is set before each
man: to rise above his race--to be the culmination of virtue until now_.

_The second problem is not greater, but different. It is to mould
environment to spiritual uses_. The conditions of this struggle and the
opportunities of this conquest are the content of this book. It is meant
to deal with the more heroic aspects of the Christian life.

What is environment? Is it the material horizon that bounds us? If so,
where does it end? Our first environment is a crib, a room, our mother's
eyes. Sensations of hunger, heat, and motion beat upon the baby-brain;
there is a vague murmur of sound in the baby-ears. Yet it is this babe
who, in after days, has all the universe for his soul's demesne! His
environment stretches out to towns and rivers, shore and sea. Looking
upward into space, he can view a star whose distance is a thousand times
ten thousand miles. Beyond the path of his feet or of his sight, there
is the path of thought, which leads him into new countries, new climes,
new years! His meditations are upon ages gone; his work competes with
that of the dead. In his reveries and imaginings, he can transport
himself anywhither, and can commune with any friend or god. Hence to be
master of one's environment is really to have the universe within
one's grasp.

We are too much afraid of customs and traditions. We are put into our
times, not that the times may mould us, but that we may mould the times!
Ways? Customs? They exist to be changed! The _tempora_ and the _mores_
should be plastic to our touch. The times are never level with our best.
Our souls are higher than the _Zeitgeist_. Why should we cringe before
an inferior essence or command? But society seals our lips: we walk
about with frozen tongues.

Each asks himself at some time: How shall I become one 
of the Victors of
the race? Is it in me? Mankind is weighted by every previous sin. Where
am I free? How am I free? Can I do as I choose? Or are there bourns of
conduct beyond which I can never go? Am I foreordained to sin? Do the
stars in their courses lay limitations on free will?

There are in man two forces working: a human longing after God, and, in
response, God inly working in the soul. The Victor is he who, in his own
life, unites these two things: a great longing after the god-like, which
makes him yearn for virtue,--and the divine power within him, through
which and by which he is triumphant over time and death and sin.

Whatever our trials, sorrows, or temptations, joy and courage are ever
meant to be in the ascendant; life, however it may break in storms upon
us, is not meant to beat down our souls. Unless we are triumphant, we
are not wholly useful or well trained. Will and heart together work
for victory.

As there flashes and thrills through all nature a subtle electric
vibration which is the supreme form of physical energy, so there runs
through the history of mankind a current of spiritual inspiration and
power. To possess this magnetism of soul, this heroism of life, this
flame-like flower of character, is to be Victor in the great combats of
the race. It is the spirit of courage, energy, and love. Nothing is too
hard for it, nothing too distasteful, nothing too insignificant. Through
all the course of duty it spurs one to do one's best. Its essence is to
overcome. This is the indwelling Holy Spirit, wherein is freedom, power,
and rest. To its final triumph all things are accessory. To joy, all
powers converge.

II. PRELUDE: THE CALL OF JESUS

 [VOX DILECTI]

 _I heard the voice of Jesus say
 Come unto Me and rest;
 Lay down, thou weary one, lay down
 Thy head upon My breast.
 I came to Jesus as I was,
 Weary and worn and sad;
 I found in Him a resting-place,
 And He has made me glad._

 _I heard the voice of Jesus say
 Behold I freely give
 The living water; thirsty one,
 Stoop down and drink, 
and live.
 I came to Jesus, and I drank
 Of that life-giving stream;
 My thirst was quenched, my soul revived,
 And now I live in Him._

 _I heard the voice of Jesus say
 I am this dark world's light;
 Look unto Me, thy morn shall rise,
 And all thy day be bright.
 I looked to Jesus, and I found
 In Him my star, my sun;
 And in that light of life I'll walk,
 Till travelling days are done._

 HORATIUS BONAR

It is a world of voices in which we live. We are daily visited by
appeals which are ministering to our growth and progress, or which are
tending to our spiritual downfall. There are the voices of nature, in
sky, and sea, and storm; the voices of childhood and of early youth; the
voices of playfellows and companions,--voices long stilled, it may be,
in death; the voices of lover and beloved; the voices of ambition, of
sorrow, of aspiration, and of joy.

But among all these many voices, there is one which is most inspiring
and supreme. When the _Vorspiel_ to _Parsifal_ breaks upon the ear it is
as if all other music were inadequate and incomplete--as if a voice
called from the confines of eternity, in the infinite spaces where no
time is, and rolled onward to the far-off ages when time shall be no
more. Even so, high and clear above the voices of the world, deeper and
tenderer than any other word or tone, comes the voice of Jesus to the
soul of man.

Look, if you will, upon the World of Souls, many-tiered and vast,
stretching from day's end to day's end,--a world of hunger and of anger,
of toiling and of striving, of clamor and of triumph,--a dim, upheaving
mass, which from century to century wakes, and breathes, and sleeps
again! Years roll on, tides flow, but there is no cessation of the march
of years, and no whisper of a natural change. Is it not a strange thing
that one voice, and only one, should have really won the hearing of the
race? What is this voice of Jesus, so enduring, matchless, and supreme?
What does it promise, for the help or hope of man?

There are some who say that Jesus has held the attenti
on and allegiance
of the race by an appeal to the religious instinct; that all men
naturally seek God, and long to know Him. But if we try to define the
religious instinct, we shall find it a hard task. What might be called a
religious instinct leads to human sacrifice upon the Aztec altar;
directs the Hindu to cast the new-born child in the stream, the friend
to sacrifice his best friend to a pagan deity.

There are others who say that Christ appeals to the gentler instincts of
man,--to his unselfishness, his meekness and compassion. Yet some of the
most admirable Christians have been ambitious and aggressive. Others
say, He appeals to our need of help. But self-reliance is a Christian
trait. Others say, He appeals to our sense of sin--our need of pardon.
But many a Christian goes through life like a happy child, scarcely
conscious at any time of deep guilt, and never overwhelmed by intense
conviction or despair.

The truth seems to be that Christ appeals to our whole selves. He calls
us by an attraction which is unique. In the universe there exists a
force which we must recognize--though we do not yet in the least
understand it--which is gradually drawing the race Christward. The law
of spiritual gravitation is, that by all the changing impulses of our
nature we are drawn upward unto Him. Spohr's lovely anthem voices this
cry of the soul:

 "_As pants the hart for cooling streams,
 When heated in the chase,
 So longs my soul, O God, for Thee,
 And Thy refreshing grace.

 "For Thee, my God, the living God,
 My thirsty soul doth pine;
 Oh! when shall I behold Thy face,
 Thou Majesty divine_?"

1. Jesus calls us by the mystery of life. There are hours of silence and
meditation when the great thought _I am_ beats in upon the soul. But
what am I? Whence came I? A heap of atoms in some strange human
semblance--is that all? And so many other heaps of atoms have already
been, and passed away! Blown hither and thither--where? The universe
reels with change. Star-dust and earth-dust are alike in ceaseless
whirl. Little i
t profits to build the spire, the sea-wall, the dome, the
bridge, the myriad-roofed town. A new era shall dawn upon them, and they
shall fall away.

Not only that, but each man who lives to-day has less possible material
dominion than he had who preceded him. Only so many square feet of
earth, and now there are more to walk upon them! The ground we tread was
once trodden by the feet of those long dead. I am taking up their room,
and in due time I must myself depart, that there may be footway for
those who are to come after me. Only the under-sod is really mine--the
little earth-barrow to which I go.

There is no question more baffling than this simple, ever-recurring one:
What am I? If I should decide what I am to-day, I discover that
yesterday I was quite a different person. To-day I may be six feet in
height, and climb the Alps; yesterday I lay helpless in swaddling
clothes. Yesterday I was a thing of laughter and frolic; to-day I am
grave, and brush away tears. As a babe, was I still I? What is Myself?
When did I come to Myself? How far can I extend Myself? My feet are
here, but in a moment my spirit can flee to Xanadu and Zanzibar. There
is no spot in the universe where I may not go. Where, then, are the
limits of Myself?

Personality is never for a single moment fixed: it is as changing and
evanescent as a cloud. We are whirlwind spirits, swept through time and
space, bearing within our souls hopes, fears, joys, sorrows, which are
never twice the same. Every aspect of the universe leaves new
impressions on us, and our wills, in their world-sweep, daily desire
different things.

Incompleteness lies on life--restlessness is in the heart. True love has
no final habitation on earth; there is no abiding-place for our deepest
affection, our most tender yearning. It is curious how deeply one may
love, and yet feel that there is something more. In all our journeys,
skyward and sunward, we never reach the End of All.

Over against this vague and changing self, there stands out the figure
of the changeless Christ, the
 same yesterday, to-day, and forever. In
Him we find the environment of all our lives, and the sum of all
our dreams.

2. Jesus calls us by our earth-born cares. In Mendelssohn's _Elijah_,
there is a voice which sings: "O rest in the Lord!" This angel's message
is the voice of Jesus to the human race.

The voice of Jesus calls us to awake to toil. We sometimes forget this,
and imagine that if we follow Jesus, we shall never have anything to do.
Christ does not still the machinery of the world, nor shut the mine, nor
take away the sowing and the reaping. The call of Jesus is not a call to
rest from work, but to rest in work. The rest we receive is that of
sympathy, of inspiration, of efficiency. Christ really increases the
toil-capacity of man. Man can do more work, harder work, and always
better work, because of the faith that is in him. What makes the
confusion and fatigue of life is, that men are everywhere scrambling
for themselves, and trying to manage their own undertakings, instead of
falling into harmony with God, and through Him, with all that is. What
wears the soul out is not the work of life itself--it is its drudgery,
its monotony, its blind vagueness, its apparent purposelessness. We do
not wish to scatter our lives and spend our years in nothingness.

Christ comes into the world and says: Over-fatigue is abnormal. There
is not enough work in the universe to tire every one all out. There is
just enough for each one to do happily, and to do well. I am come as the
great industrial organizer. My mission is not to take away toil, but to
redistribute it. My industrial plan is the largest of history--it is
also the most simple. I look down over the world, as a master upon his
men. My work is not to found an earthly kingdom, as some have thought;
it is not primarily to set up industrial establishments, or syndicates,
or ways of transport and trade. My work is to build up in the universe a
spiritual kingdom of energy, power, and progress. To this kingdom all
material things are accessory. In My hand are all 
abilities, as well as
all knowledge. Not a sparrow falls to the ground without My notice. Not
a lily blooms without My delight. Not a brick is laid, not a stone is
set, not an axe is swung, except beneath My eye. I provide for My own.
To each man I assign his work, his task. If he takes upon him only what
I give him to do, he will never be under-paid, or over-tired.

Hence the first step towards an industrial millennium is to arise and do
what Jesus bids. Heaven is heaven because no one is unruly there, or
idle, or lazy, or vicious, or morose. Each soul is at true and happy
work. Each energy is absorbed; each hour is alive with interest, and
there are no oppressive thoughts or ways.

If each heart and soul responded to the call of Jesus, there would be a
new heaven and a new earth--a Utopia such as More never dreamed of, nor
Plato, nor Bellamy, nor Campanella in his _City of the Sun_. Each hand
would be at its own work; each eye would be upon its own task; each foot
would be in the right path. All the fear, the weariness, the squalor,
and the unrest of life would be done away. The life of each man would be
a life of contentment, and of economic advance.

3. Jesus calls us by the scourging of our sins. Flagellation is not of
the body--it is of the soul. Remorse is as a scorpion-whip, and memory
beats us with many stripes. The first sin that besets us is
forgetfulness of God. Apathy creeps over the spirit, and sloth winds
itself about our deeds. Nothing is more pathetic than the decline of the
merely forgetful soul. "Be sleepless in the things of the spirit," says
Pythagoras, "for sleep in them is akin to death."

Sin lifts bars against success: the root of failure lies in irreligion.
Pride, conceit, disobedience, malice, evil-speaking, covetousness,
idolatry, vice, oppression, injustice, and lack of truth and honor fight
more strongly against one's career than any other foe. No sin is without
its lash; no experience of evil but has its rebound. To expect a higher
moral insight in middle age because of a larger exp
erience of sin in
youth, is as reasonable as to look for sanity of judgment in middle age
because in youth a man had fits!

Looking at ourselves in a mirror, do we not sometimes think how we would
fashion ourselves if we could create a new self, in the image of some
ideal which is before us? Would we not make ourselves wholly beautiful
if we could make ourselves?

Even so, looking out upon our own spirits, do we not some day rouse to
the distortion and deformity of sin? Do we wish to retain these
grimacing phases of ourselves? Do we not yearn eagerly for the dignity
and beauty of high virtue? Do we not long for the graces and perfections
which make up a radiant and happy life? If we could be born again, would
we not be born a more spiritual being?

It is to this new birth that Jesus calls our souls. All around the babe,
hid in its mother's womb, there lies a world of which it has neither
sight nor knowledge. The fact that the babe is ignorant does not change
the fact that the world is there. So about our souls there lies the
invisible world of God, which, until born of the Spirit, we do not see
or understand. It is a world in which God is everywhere; in which there
is no First Cause, except God; in which there is no will, except the
will of God; in which there is no true and perfect love, except from
God; no truth, except revealed by God; no power, except from Him.

Conversion is the outlook over a world which is arranged, not for our
own glory, but for the good of God's creatures; in which what we do is
necessary, fundamental, permanent--not because we ourselves have done it
well, nor, in truth, because we have done it at all--but because what we
have done is a part of the universe which God is building. We change
from a self-centre to a God-centre; from the thought of whether the
world applauds to whether God approves; from the thought of keeping our
own life to the thought of preserving our own integrity; from isolation
from all other souls to a sympathy with them, an understanding of their
needs, and a desire
 to help their lives. It is a turning from a delight
in sin, or an indifference to sin, or merely a moral aversion to it, to
a deep-rooted hatred of every thought and act of sin, to penitence, and
to an earnest desire to pattern after God.

4. Jesus calls us by our sorrows, Jesus calls us by our dreams. He
thrills us by each high aim that life inspires. His voice is one of
understanding, of tenderness, of human appeal. How could we love Jesus
if He did not sympathize with our ideals? But here is a Divine One in
whose sight we are not visionary; who lovingly guards our least hope;
who welcomes our faintest spiritual insight; who takes an interest in
our social plans, and points out to us the great kingdom that is to be.
Christ lays hold of the divine that is in us, and will not let us go.

5. Jesus calls us by our latent gifts and powers. Which of us has ever
exhausted his possibilities? Which of us is all that he might be?

It is an impressive thought, that nothing in the universe ever gets used
up. It changes form, motion, semblance,--but the force, the energy,
neither wastes nor dies away. Air--it is as fresh as the air that blew
over the Pharaohs. Sun--it is as undimmed as the sun that looked down on
the completion of Cheops. Earth--it is as unworn as the earth that was
trodden by the cavemen.

No generation can ever bequeath to us a single new material atom. The
race is ever in old clothes. Nor can we hand down to others one atom
which was not long ere we were born. Yet the vitality of the universe is
being constantly increased, and this increase is also permanent. God has
a great deal more to work with now than a thousand years ago.

For not all energy is material. With each birth there comes a new force
into the world, and its influence never dies. The body is born of ages
past, of the material stores of centuries; but the soul, in its living,
thinking, working power, is a new phase of energy added to the energy
of the race.

This fact confers on each individual man a strange impressiveness and
power. It gi
ves a new significance to the fact that I am. I am something
different from what has been, or ever shall be. In the great whirling
myriads, I am distinguished and apart. I am an appreciable factor in
universal development and a being of elemental power. By every true
thought of mine the race becomes wiser. By every right deed, its
inheritance of tradition is uplifted; by every high affection, its
horizon of love is enlarged. We can bequeath to others this new
spiritual energy of our lives.

This thought gives us a new zest for life. There is an appetite which is
of the soul. It is this wish for growth, for the development of our
powers, for a larger life for ourselves and for those who shall
come after us.

Is there any one who wishes to stay always where he is to-day?--to be
always what he is this morning? Beyond the hill-top lies our dream. Not
all the voices that call men from place to place are audible ones. We
hear whispers from a far-off leader; we are beckoned by an unseen guide.
Out of ancestry, tradition, talent, and training each departs to
his own way.

What calls is not largeness of place--it is largeness of ideal. To each
of us, thinking of this one and that one who has taken a large part in
the shaping of the world, there comes a feeling: Beside all these I am
in a narrow way! What can I think that shall be worth the consideration
of the race? What can I do that shall be a stepping-stone to progress?
What can I hope that shall unseal other eyes to the universal glory,
comfort others in the universal pain? We say: I do not want to be mewed
up here, while others are out where thrones and empires are sweeping by!
I do not want to parse verbs, add fractions, and mark ledgers, while
others are the poets, the singers, the statesmen, the rulers, and the
wealth-controllers of the world! We wish to step out of the trivial
experience into that which is significant. Each day brings uneasiness of
soul. "Man's unhappiness," says Carlyle, "as I construe it, comes of his
greatness; it is because there is an infini
te in him, which with all his
cunning he cannot quite bury under the finite." Says Tennyson:

 "_It is not death for which we pant,
 But life, more life, and fuller, that we want_."

These aspirations are prophetic. Does a clod-hopper dream? We move
toward our desires. The wish for growth is but the call of Jesus to our
souls. We sometimes hear of the "limitations of life." What are they?
Who set them? Man himself, not God. The call of Jesus urges the soul of
man to possibilities which are infinite.

A large life is the fulfilment of God's ideal of our lives--the life
which, from all eternity, He has looked upon as possible for us. Could
any career be grander than the one that God has planned for us? God does
not think petty thoughts: He longs for grandeur for us all.

6. Jesus calls us by the spirit of the times. There is a growing
recognition of the affinity between God and the human soul. Religion has
changed in spirit as well as in form. It used to be considered a tract
in one's experience, and now it is perceived to be all of life--its
impetus, its central moving force, the reason for being, activity,
development, for ethical conduct, and for unselfish and joyous
helpfulness. Religion is more and more perceived to be, not a thing of
feeble sentiment, of restraint, of exaction, of meek subordination and
resignation, but the unfolding of the free human spirit to the
realization of its highest possibilities and its allegiance to that
which is eternal and supreme. The nineteenth century closes with the
thinker who is also a man of meditation and devotion. We offer to Heaven
the incense of aspiration, hope, research, talent, and imagination.

The chief thing toward which we are moving is, I believe, the
Enthronement of the Christ. Christ has always been, in the hearts of the
few, enthroned and enshrined. Even in the dark years of mediaeval
superstition and unrest, there were the cloistered ones who maintained
traditions of faith and did works of mercy, as there were knightly ones
who upheld the ministry of chival
ry, and followed, though afar, the
tender shining of the Holy Grail. But now all the signs point to a great
and general recognition of the Christ--Christ to be lifted high on the
hands of the nations, to His throne above the stars!

A new spiritual note is to be heard in modern subjects of study, is
noticeable in all paths of intellectual prestige. History is no more
looked upon as the story of the trophies of warriors, conquerors, and
kings. History, rising out of dim mists, is seen to be the marching and
the countermarching of nations in the throes of progress and of social
change. It is not the story of princes alone, but of peasants as well;
the result of myriads of small, obscure lives; of changing conditions;
of the movements of great economic, psychologic, and spiritual forces.
Looking backward over the moving processional of the nations of the
earth, we may see how, without rest, without pause, through countless
ages, the myriad legions of men have been passing across the scene of
life--passing, and fading away!

 "_All that tread
 The globe are but a handful of the tribes
 That slumber in its bosom_."

Empires have risen, and empires have decayed; dynasties have been
buried, and long lines of kings, wrapping stately robes about them, have
lain down to die. Thrones have been overturned, armies and navies have
been mustered and scattered, land and sea have been peopled and made
desolate, as the thronging tribes and races have lived their little life
and passed away. Babylon and Assyria, India and Arabia, Egypt and
Persia, Rome and Greece,--each of these has had its lands and conquests,
its song and story, its wars and tumults, its wrath and praise. Under
all the tides of conquest and endeavor but one fact shines supreme: the
steady progress of the Cross.

One principle of growth and development is being slowly revealed,--an
approach to symmetry and civic form, which is seen in freedom, justice,
popular education, the rise of masses, the power of public opinion, and
a general regard for life, health, peace,
 national prosperity, and the
individual weal. The day has passed when men merely lived, slept, ate,
fought; they are now involved in an intricate and progressive
civilization. Sociology, ethics, and politics are newly blazed pathways
for its development, its guidance, and its ideals. We are moving on to
new dreams of patriotism, of statesmanship, and of civil rule.

Literature, instead of being considered as merely an expression of the
primitive experiences of a race in its sagas, glees, ballads, dramas,
and larger works and songs, is more and more revealing itself as an
appeal to the Highest in the supreme moments of life. It is the
unfolding panorama of the concepts of the soul in regard to duty,
conduct, love, and hope. Literature asks: What do I live for? as well
as, How shall I speak forth beauty? How ought the soul of man to act in
an emergency? What is the best solution of the great human problems of
duty, love, and fate? The voices of Dante, Milton, Shakespeare,
Tennyson, and Browning sweep the soul upward to spiritual heights, and
answer some of the deepest questionings of the soul of man. And hence
literature is no longer merely a thing of vocabulary, of phrase, of
rhythm, of assonance, of alliteration, or of metrical and philosophical
form. It is a revelation of the progress of the soul, of its standards,
of its triumphs, its defeats, and its desires. It is the unfolding of
one's intellectual helplessness before the unmoved, calm passing of
years; of one's emotional inadequacy without God for adjudicator. It is
a direct search for God. One finds wrapped within it the mystery,
aspiration, and spiritual passion of the soul.

Science, no longer a dry assembling of facts and figures, is an
increasing revelation of the imagination, the exactness, the
thoroughness, and the great progressive plans of God. Evolution has
become a spiritual formula. The scientist looks out over the earth and
sky and sun and star. Against his little years are meted out vast
prehistoric spans; against his mastery of a few forms o
f life, stands
Life itself. Back of all, there looms up the great Figure of the
Originator of life, and of the forms of life; the Maker and Ruler of
them all. Each scientific fact helps exegesis and evidence. Each new
aspiration after truth becomes a form of prayer.

Yes, the whole world is being subtly and powerfully drawn to the worship
of the Christ. Never before was there so deep, genuine, and widespread a
Revival of Religion. It has not come heralded with great outcries, with
flame and wind, and revolution and upheaval; it has come as the great
changes that are most permanent come, in stillness and strength.
Throughout the world there is being turned to the service of religion
the highest training, the most intellectual power. Wars are being
wrought for freedom; the Church and the university are joining hands;
the rich and the poor are drawing near together for mutual help and
understanding; industry is growing to be, not only a crude force, brutal
and disregarding, but a high ministry to human needs; the home is
becoming more and more the guardian of faith and the shrine of peace;
business houses are taking upon them a religious significance; commerce
and trade are perceiving ethical duties. Armies are marching in the
name of Jehovah, and a great poet has this one message: "Lest
we forget!"

7. Jesus calls us by the future of the race. Life proceeds to life.
Eternity is what is just before. Immortality is a native concept for the
soul. Beyond this hampered half-existence, the soul demands life,
freedom, growth, and power.

We stand between two worlds. Behind us is the engulfed Past, wherein
generations vanish, as the wake of ships at sea. Before us is the
Future, in the dawn-mist of hovering glory, and surprise. Looking out
over eternity, that billowy expanse, do we not see rising, clear though
shadowy, a vast Permanence, Completion, Realization, in which the soul
of man shall have endless progress and delight? This is the Promise held
out by all the ages, and the future toward which all the thoughts and
dr
eams of man converge. It is glorious to be a living soul, and to know
that this great race--life is yet to be!

At the threshold of each new century stands Jesus, star-encircled, with
a voice above the ages and a crown above the spheres,--Jesus, saying,
FOLLOW ME!

III. PROCESSIONAL: THE CHURCH OF GOD

 [AURELIA]

 _The Church's one foundation
 Is Jesus Christ her Lord;
 She is His new creation
 By water and the Word:
 From heaven He came and sought her
 To be His Holy Bride;
 With His own blood He bought her
 And for her life He died.

 Though with a scornful wonder
 Men see her sore opprest,
 By schisms rent asunder,
 By heresies distrest;
 Yet saints their watch are keeping,
 Their cry goes up, "How long?"
 And soon the night of weeping
 Shall be the morn of song.

 'Mid toil and tribulation,
 And tumult of her war,
 She waits the consummation
 Of peace for evermore;
 Till with the vision glorious
 Her longing eyes are blest,
 And the great Church victorious
 Shall be the Church at rest._

 SAMUEL JOHN STONE

FIRST: RECONSTRUCTION

The subject that is being carefully considered by many thinking men and
women to-day is this: the place and prospects of the Christian Church.
All about us we hear the cry that the Church is declining, and may
eventually pass away; that it does not gain new members in proportion to
its need, nor hold the attention and allegiance of those already
enrolled. Are these things true? If so, how may better things be brought
to pass? To share in the civilization that has come from nineteen
hundred years of the work of the Church, and to be unwilling to lift a
pound's weight of the present burden, in order to pass on to others our
precious heritage, is certainly a selfish and unworthy course. It is
better to ask, What is my work in the upbuilding of the Church? What can
I do to further the Royal Progress of the Church of God?

The root-failure of the organized Church to-day is its failure to share
in the growing life of the world. A growing life is one that is full of
new ideas, new experien
ces, new emotions, a new outlook over life--that
works in new ways, and that is full of seething and tumultuous energy,
enthusiasm, and hope. If we look out over the colleges, business
enterprises, periodicals, agriculture, manufacturing, and shipping of
the world, we find everywhere one story--growth, impetus, courage,
resources, vigorous and bounding life. Beside these things the average
church services to-day are both stupid and poky. The forces of religion
are neither guided nor wielded well. There is in most churches, however
we may dislike to own the fact, a decrease of interest and proportionate
membership, a waning prestige, a general air of discouragement, and a
tale of baffled efforts and of disappointed hopes.

The Church--and by this word I here mean the organized body of both
clergymen and laymen--is meant to be the supreme spiritual leader of the
world. It is meant to possess vigor, decision, insight, hope, and
intellectual power. But before it can accomplish its high and holy work,
a great reconstruction must begin. To help in this reconstruction, to
aid in vivifying, cooerdinating, and ruling the varied processes of
organized religion, is your work and mine.

1. The Church must rouse to a sense of its noble duties and exalted
powers. We underrate the Church. We are looking elsewhere for our
highest ideals, instead of claiming from the Church that spiritual
guidance and inspiration which should be its right to give. One of the
things that is a monumental astonishment to me, is that when we need
supplication, intercession, prayer for the averting of great personal or
national calamity, we flee to the Church, but we seldom think of the
Church when we need brains!

The Church should lead, and not follow, the great dreams of the world.
In the midst of our new national life we are sending all over the
country for the best-trained help and thought in every department of
government influence and control. Our problems of the day are
preeminently spiritual ones. Colonial control is not a question of
materia
l ascendancy--it is a rule over the minds, hearts, and ideals of
men. Its moral significance is patent. We are called upon, not only to
import provisions, clothing, and household and industrial goods into our
new possessions; we are called upon to develop a higher sense of honor,
truth, honesty, and every-day morality. Scholars, working-men, business
men, farmers, and merchants are being consulted in regard to different
phases of our national advance, and every idea which their insight and
experience furnish is seized upon. But who is consulting the Church in
these concerns, except in reference to mere technical points? Who is
looking to the intellectual, moral, and spiritual standards of the
Church for guidance? We are to-day ruled spiritually, as well as
intellectually, by laymen, and in a way which is quite outside the
organized work of the Church.

2. The Church needs a more business-like organization and way of work.
It needs a more military spirit and discipline. The Church is diffuse
and loosely strung. There are in the United States alone about two
hundred and fifty-six kinds of religious bodies. There is no centralized
interest or work; there is no economic adjustment of funds; there is no
internal agreement as to practical methods. The result is a most
wasteful expenditure of force. Movements are not only duplicated, but
reproduced a hundred times in miniature, in one denomination after
another; special talent is restricted to a narrow field; buildings and
church-plants are multiplied, but lie largely disused; sects and
communities are at loggerheads on unessential points; all this--and the
world is not being saved! The Church fails to see openings for
aggressive work; it fails to seize strategic points; it does not carry a
well-knit local organization, with a husbanding of economic force; it
does not front the world in dead-earnest; it is not proud and honorable
in meeting its local debts; it loses progressive force, from lack of
knowledge as to how to judge men, and train them, and set them to work.


It also lacks greatly in office-force and in supplies. The gospel itself
is without price, but in the nature of things it cannot be proclaimed,
nor church-work efficiently carried on, without financial outlay. There
should be a more adequate equipment for this work. All other enterprises
need, without question, stationery, stenographers, literature for
distribution, office-rooms, office-hours, and a general arrangement
looking toward enlargement and progress. A busy pastor should have an
office-equipment just as much as a business man, and it should be
supported, as a business office is, out of the funds of the business
organization, _i.e._ the local church.

There should be, first of all, a united spirit, and a general
reorganization throughout the whole of evangelical Christendom, not
necessarily destroying denominational lines, with a view to quick
mobilization of energy in any direction most needed. What would a
general do, who, in looking over his troops, should find two hundred and
fifty-six provincial armies, not at ease or at peace with each other,
and yet expected to make war upon a common foe? Shall we not endeavor to
share in some broadly planned, magnificently executed scheme of
world-advance?

The Church has reached a point where a vast constructive work is to be
done. Its scattered parts must be knit into a powerful and aggressive
whole, to turn a solid front upon the evil of the world. The times are
ripe for a successor of Peter the Hermit, of Luther, Knox, Calvin,
Zwingli, Savonarola, Whitefield, Finney, Moody. Whether a great
preacher, theologian, or evangelist, he will certainly be a business
man, a man of vast energy and executive capacity, who shall perform this
miracle of organization of which many dream, and who shall set the
progress of the Church for a full century to come!

This united spirit should prevail, not only through the smaller bodies,
but between the Roman Catholic and Protestant communions. There has been
a distinct division between these two bodies, much mutual suspicion,
jeal
ousy, and antagonism: it is only quite lately that Protestant and
Catholic leaders have been willing to work amicably together for great
common causes.

A new situation has arisen. In our new possessions we are confronted
with a large population who, whatever may be the reason, are
unquestionably not, as a whole, progressive, enlightened, educated, or
highly moral. The problem now is, not for Catholic and Protestant to
waste energy and spiritual strength in contending for mastery over each
other, but for them to unite in changing and bettering the condition of
our island peoples. What is past is past. Our present duty is to bring
peace, industry, intelligence, high ideals, and spiritual living to our
new countrymen. This is a work to fill the hands and heart of both
churches, and perhaps, in a common task, each may learn to understand
and regard the other as those should understand and regard each other
who have one Lord, one hope, one heaven.

3. The Church needs stronger and more gifted leaders. In every business
or intellectual enterprise to-day, there is an effort to place at the
head of each organization the most powerful and resourceful man whose
services can be obtained. Nothing in this age works, or is expected to
work, without the leadership of brains. A primary step, in a
far-reaching ecclesiastical policy, is to endeavor to draw into both
ministry and membership the most active and intellectual class. All
earnest souls can work, but not all can work equally effectively.
Particularly in the ministry, north, south, east, and west, men are
needed who are really _men_. This does not necessarily mean the men with
the longest string of academic degrees, the men who can write the best
poems or make the best speeches on public occasions; it means the
thinking men who are brave, talented, spiritual, and warm-hearted.

In the Report of one of the missionary Boards, I have recently read the
following stirring words. They refer to the work of missionaries in the
far north, one of whom has lately travelled a thousa
nd miles over the
snow in a dog-sled: "He who follows that mining crowd must be more than
the minister, who would do well for towns in the west or elsewhere in
Alaska. He must be a man who, when night overtakes him, will be thankful
if he can find a bunk and a plate in a miner's cabin; he must travel
much, and therefore cannot be cumbered with extra trappings--must dress
as the miners do, and accept their food and fare. He must be no less in
earnest in his search for souls than they in search for gold. He must be
so 'furnished' that, without recourse to books or study-table, he can
minister acceptably to men who under the guise of a miner's garb hide
the social and mental culture of life in Eastern colleges and
professional days."

It is far from that land of frost and snow to the beautiful island of
Porto Rico, washed by tropical seas, through the streets of whose
capital there passes every day the carriage of the Governor, with its
white-covered upholstery and its livery of white. But I add this word:
The missionary sent to Porto Rico, be he Catholic or Protestant, must be
a man who can stand among statesmen and society men and women, as well
as one who can live and work among the humblest folk who lodge in
leaf-thatched huts along the roadside or far on lonely hills.
Representative men of ability, health, culture, and courage are being
chosen to carry on governmental work: it is idle to send provincial men
to the Church. What is locally true of the Church in Porto Rico is
fundamentally true all over the world, at home and abroad. Each
ministerial post to-day requires an imperial man. Not every post
requires the same sort of man, either in regard to general heredity or
education. Men are needed of the Peter-type, of the John-type, of the
Paul-type; it suffices that, they be men of unusual power, and well
fitted to their individual work.

4. The Church needs a better system for the proper placing of men. No
phase of the world's work can be carried on merely and simply because a
man is pious. In every phase of li
fe, there is a constant shifting of
men according to temperament, ability, and general influence and power.
In the Church we must have a quick and decisive recognition of a man's
ability, and he must be set where that talent can work easily and
effectively. Churches are not all alike. There are no two alike. When we
think of it, what a ghoulish business "candidating" is! No scheme for
the right placing of men can be devised which does not place a great
deal of power in the hand of a few leading men. This power may be
abused, but ought not to be, if it were really looked upon as under
divine direction and inspiration. Cannot a great leader be inspired to
the choice of a man, as well as a great author to the choice of a word,
a rhyme? Comparatively few men thoroughly understand how to rate other
men, and to these few men, as in all other great enterprises, must be
given the power and authority to select and adjust. By this I do not
mean that a set of ecclesiastics will alone be adequate. Ecclesiastical
vision, like all other highly specialized vision, is partial, and does
not always see quite straight. There should also be called into play the
business ability and discernment of men of large business interests or
administrative gifts. Sooner or later the various religious
organizations will have to meet, in some better way than any thus far
formulated, this growing need.

5. We need a release of pressure on the abler men. Many a minister
to-day is a sort of community lackey. What other men are frankly too
busy to do, he is supposed to be cheerfully ready to do. The list of odd
jobs which fall to his lot would be ridiculous, were not their influence
upon his life and work so retrogressive and so sad. He lives to serve
others, but this vow of service is greatly imposed upon. If he is to
lead in intellectual and spiritual matters, he must be given fewer
errands to run, the financial burden of his church must be taken
absolutely from his shoulders, he must have a suitable salary, and his
time must be at least as carefu
lly guarded as that of the average man.
Some calls he is bound to obey, at whatever cost of time or
strength,--illness, certain public duties, and real spiritual
needs,--but his life must not be at the mercy of cranks, or of idle
persons' whims.

6. We need a reorganization of preaching traditions. It is a tradition
that a minister must, in general, preach two set sermons every week,
give one informal week-day lecture, and be prepared to deliver, at any
moment, funeral addresses, anniversary speeches, "remarks," or to
perform other utterly impossible intellectual feats. Anyone who writes,
or who speaks in public, knows that the preparation of a half-hour
address which is worth anything requires a great deal of time. It
cannot ordinarily be "tossed off," and help men's souls. Only an
occasional inspiration, the result of a lifetime of thought and
experience, is born in this sudden way. Usually excellence is the result
of long and careful labor. The way to help this would seem to be a
constant interchange of preachers, not only in one denomination, but
among the various denominations, so that a really fine sermon would be
heard by many people, and fewer sermons would require to be written.
This is easily done in a large city or its vicinity. What congregations
need most is not altogether formal sermons, but thoughtful, helpful
talks containing a fresh, uplifting, and spiritual outlook over life,
with a practical bearing on the occasions and duties of life. The work
of both Frederick Robertson and Horace Bushnell has this direct and
vital tone.

Ministers must study more. If they are freed from many tasks now put
upon them, it is not unreasonable to ask that this time be put on more
careful thinking. Too many a minister of to-day is, intellectually,
something of a flibbertigibbet. His sermons do not take hold, because
they have not the roots to take hold with. How many ministers possess,
for instance, a scholarly knowledge of human nature or of the deeper
aspects of redemption? Yet these things he ought to know. The
re is a
large amount of intensely interesting, though spiritually undigested,
material for a minister in a book like William James's _Varieties of
Religious Experience_.

7. Greater care must be taken of the rural church. Any one interested in
a great ecclesiastical polity must surely recognize the ultimate
possibilities of our rural regions. Here are growing up the leading men
and women of to-morrow. Ideals and inspirations set upon their hearts
will bear fruit a thousand-fold. Hence there should be a definite
arrangement by which a certain portion of the preaching time of the
really able preachers shall be placed each year in some small and remote
place. Several scattered country churches might unite for these
services. Let such a man also make helpful suggestions for neighborhood
social and intellectual life. While he is in the village, let the
country pastor go to town, browse in libraries, art-collections, hear
music, and get a general quickening of interest and inspiration. Let
each compare notes with the other. They will both gain by this
interchange.

8. There is too little recognition of individual talent in the Church.
Too few workers are set at work which they know how to do, and the
untaught rush at tasks which angels fear to touch. We have myriads of
Sabbath-school teachers, but how many men or women really know how to
teach a little child? The man is asked to speak or pray in
prayer-meeting, who cannot possibly do it well, but no notice is taken
of the fact that he thoroughly understands public accounts. A man is
asked to subscribe ten dollars to a church affair, who cannot afford it,
but his spiritual insight might save the impending church quarrel.
People come and go in the churches, and many, I am convinced, drift away
because they are never asked for anything but money for the support and
interest of the Church. In no other sort of organization is this true.
Even in the summer camp or mountain hotel or Atlantic liner, when any
pastime or entertainment is suggested, the first thing to discover is
,
What can each one _do_? One, who has the gift of organization and
management, "gets it up"; one sings; one reads or recites; one writes a
bright bit of verse; another smooths out rising jealousies, or bridges,
by a little tact, the abyss of caste. Why do we hide so many pretty
talents under a bushel, when the church-door swings behind us? Why do we
substitute such strange and foolish tasks, particularly for women? What
would leading lawyers and doctors do, I wonder, if they were asked, as
busy women often have been, to spend a precious morning in a church-room
sorting cast-off clothes?

In every church, large or small, there are both men and women who are
talented in a special way; who could bring gifts of training and
experience to bear upon the problems and opportunities of the Church.
Tell me, in prayer or speech-making, formal or social occasion, pastor
or people, do we often bring our very deepest, tenderest, most inspiring
emotional or intellectual life? It is not a whit more spiritual to be
stupid than to be bright. This is what our church-meetings should
be--not a formal and very dull round of prayers and set remarks, more or
less pointless; they ought to be a yielding-up of our heart's best life
to others.

9. We need, as a Church, a deeper spiritual life. We need the Power of
the Holy Ghost. In spite of all the sorrow of the world, sorrow both of
a personal nature and that which touches whole communities, there is
only one real burden upon the heart of earnest men and women: it is our
own inadequate representation of Christianity,--the disheartening
difference between what we practise and what we profess. When the Church
of God is in reality a powerful and hard-working body of sincere,
honest, and loving people, the world will soon be saved!

SECOND: ADHERENCE

By the question, Why join the Church?--I do not mean alone, Why add my
name to a church-roll? I mean, Why give myself, my powers, my education,
my love, my loyalty, to advance the progress of the Church?

There is nothing we resent more than a 
waste of ourselves. To attract
our service, there must be in the Church an inner vitality, a moving
and spiritual fire.

1. The Church embodies the spiritual dreams of the world. Man does not
live by bread alone; he lives by imagination, and by religious powers.
In the Church of God, the spiritual imagination of man reached its
highest field of energy, and has brought forth its most triumphant
works. The great art of the world has centred about the Christian
Church--its architecture and much of its noblest speech. Imagine a world
in which every work which was inspired by the Church, or by the concepts
of religion embodied in it, should be left out. What would we then lack?
We would lack the greatest works of Michelangelo, Raphael, Titian,
Francesca, Botticelli, Murillo; we would not see the cathedrals of
Milan, Strasburg, or Cologne; we would never read the poems of Caedmon,
Milton, or Dante. The hamlet would be without a spire; philanthropy
would be almost unknown; there would be neither night-watch nor
morning-watch of united prayer. We should have no processional of
millions churchward on the Lord's Day, no hymns to stir our souls to joy
and praise, no anthems or oratorios, no ministers, no ecclesiastical
courts and assemblies, no church conventions, no church-schools,
religious societies, nor religious press. All these works and
institutions proclaim the glory of belief, and hand down the religious
traditions and the spiritual aspirations of the generations of men.
Shall we let others share in the mystery and triumph while we stand
apart, silent, unapproving, and alone?

The dreams of the Church are high and holy. There is the dream of
Freedom, of the Freedom of the Soul. It is an inspiring thought this,
the essential democracy of the race. We do not find intellectual
equality of souls. We see each man or woman differently circumstanced,
differently gifted, differently trained. Yet each may say, I am
spiritually free! To me also is given the opportunity of development, of
majesty of character, of high service
. The soul is the thrall of none;
nothing can bind it to spiritual serfdom.

Next, there is the dream of Allegiance. Some one has well said: "Wouldst
thou live a great life? Ally thyself with a great cause." Allegiance is
devotion of the whole of ourselves to a leader, a cause. We can no more
go through the world without allying ourselves to something than we can
go through it and live nowhere. If the object of our allegiance be a
high one, if the ideal be a grand one, our lives are in a constant
process of development toward that height, that grandeur. Each act of
faith becomes an impetus to progress. We are daily enriched by the
experience of mere obedience. To obey and follow are acts in the
universal process.

If, on the other hand, we ally ourselves to that which is lower than
ourselves, by the very act we are dragged down. No one can remain upon
even his own level, who is in obedience and devotion to that which is
below him. Allegiance to a Higher is one of the trumpet-calls of the
world. It has been the rally of all armies, of all legions, of all
crusades. The great commander is, by his very position, a grouper of
other men, the ruler of their thoughts, their deeds, their dreams. His
power to call and to sway is beyond his own ideas of it. How otherwise
could it be that out of one century one heart calls to another--out of
one age, proceeds the answer to the cry of ages gone?

The lover of music to-day allies himself to Bach, to Haydn, to Mozart,
to Wagner, by his appreciation, his sympathy, his understanding of what
they have done. He acknowledges their control of his musical self by his
efforts to interpret their work to others, and to create new works which
shall be inspired by their ideals. Thus he acknowledges their control of
his own powers. Such control over the spirit of man is that of the
Church over the social body; it stirs the spiritual aspiration of man,
it directs his ambition. It fixes upon a standard, the Cross; upon a
Hero, the Christ, and reaches unto all the world its arm of power,
drawi
ng unto itself the loyalty, the faith, the affection, and the royal
service of successive generations of mankind.

The dream of Redemption. It is not technical creeds for which the
Church as a whole stands, but for certain vital principles which concern
the life of the soul, and its relation to God and man. Virtue has always
been a dream of the heart. But how inaccessible is virtue, with a past
of unforgiven sin! The height of our ideal of redemption is conditioned
upon the depth of our realization of sin. To the shallow, redemption is
an easy-going process, a way of healing the scratches which the world
makes. To the deep and serious-minded, redemption involves the
regeneration of the race. Only the ransomed can truly work, love,
or praise!

There is one sorrow which God never calls us to--the sorrow of a wasted
life. By redemption, the Church reveals not only a saving from
rebellion, unbelief, and crime, but redemption from sloth, from
indifference, from lack of purpose, and from low aims. Redemption looms
up as the great economic force of Time--that which inspires and
preserves our powers, directs our energies, creates opportunity, brings
to pass our most high and holy desires, and fills life with satisfying
and abiding things.

Beauty, harmony, and affection are the natural laws of the moral world.
There is no despair where there has been no disobedience. _Christus
Salvator_ stands out before the world in majesty and power. Virtue is
enthroned in a universe which is beneficent.

The dream of Fellowship. The Church is the great social body. We can
never live our best life in the world, and stand outside the Church.
There is something vital in personal contact, and in social affiliation.
It strengthens the best and otherwise most complete work. The Christian
Church is a body of allies, whose work is the upbuilding of the kingdom
of God. We do not realize how great a bond this is. We have our own
church centre, our own denomination, our own local interests. But by and
by a great occasion arises--a revival which 
sweeps the country, a
reunion of two long-divided parties, an Ecumenical Council, a Chinese
persecution--and suddenly there arises before the mind's eye a glimpse
of that Church which girdles the world, whose emissaries are in every
country, whose voices speak in every tongue. We perceive that
everywhere are

 "_Swelling hills and spacious plains
 Besprent from shore to shore with steeple-towers,
 And spires whose silent finger points to heaven_."

Says Wordsworth also:

 "_They dreamt not of a perishable home,
 Who thus could build_."

Many an ideal state has been thought out, in which fellowship should be
the root of social progress. But in what state is the proffered
fellowship like that of the communion of saints? Each has his share of
work and dreams; each has his endowment of talent and of opportunity;
each has his aspirations and supreme hope. The joys of one are the joys
of all. The sorrows of one are the sorrows of all. The triumphs of one
are the triumphs of all. The World-burden is the task set to be removed.
The World-upbuilding in love, joy, peace, and truth is the final
endeavor. This community of interest is the strongest coalition the
world has yet known.

There are those who say, I prefer to worship by myself! One might as
well say, I prefer to fight in battle by myself! There is a time for
personal worship, and there is a time for social worship. Alone, the
heart meets God. Alone, its prayers for individual needs and longings
are offered up. Alone, it asks for blessings on the individual life and
work. But the personal life is only a fragmentary part of the life
universal. Above the ages rings an Over-song of praise. From shrines and
cathedrals, from chapels, churches, tents, and caves, there arises, day
after day, this incense of united prayer, from a vast and
heaven-uplifted throng! Each of us would say, Canopied under
world-skies, I, too, would join this chorus of adoring love!

The dream of Permanence. The immortality of the Church is akin to the
immortality of the soul. It is a connection w
hich is never severed. When
we enter the visible body of the Church on earth, we connect ourselves
with the invisible hosts of the Church on high. We enter a company
which shall never be disbanded nor dismayed. Something subtle and
eternal seems to lay hold of our spirits, and to lift them even to God's
Throne. For this Time has been, and for this Time now is: to present
spotless before Him the innumerable company of the redeemed, the
lion-hearted who, armed by faith and shod with fire, in robes of azure
and with songs of praise, shall stand before Him even for evermore!

2. The Church is the centre of a great circle of remembrance. One of
Constable's famous paintings represents the Cathedral of Salisbury
outlined against a storm-swept sky, with a lovely rainbow arched beyond
it. So stands the Church athwart the landscape of our lives. In each
community the church is like a living thing! How every stone grows
significant and dear! How the lights and shadows of its arches, the dim,
faint-tinted windows, the carvings and tracings, the atmosphere and
coloring, all sink into the heart, and make a background for memories
that never pass away! Who ever forgets the tones of the old organ, the
voice of the choir, the accent, look, and bearing of one's early pastor,
the rustle of the leaves without the window, the rush of the fresh
summer air, the soft falling of the rain?

The path to the church is worn by the feet of generations. Thither the
aged go up, and thither the laughing, romping children. Weary men and
women bear their burdens thither; triumphant souls bring shining faces
and uplifted brows; love and dreams cluster round the church, and the
life of the soul, silent and hidden, is subtly acted upon by persuasions
and convictions that rule the heart amid the fiercest storms and
temptations of the world. The church is a sanctuary and shield; it is an
emblem of strength and peace. Three angels stand before its altar: Life,
Love, Death! Hither is brought the babe for the christening, hither
comes the wedding processi
on, and here are laid, with farewell tears,
the quiet dead. Day by day within that church, as one grows to manhood
and womanhood, one enters into race-experiences, and feels, however
vaguely, that the Holy Spirit abides within them all.

3. The Church affords the best outlet for moral activity. Where shall we
put our moral powers? In what work shall they centre? From what point
shall they diverge? Scattered action is irresolute; it is the
centripetal powers that count.

The Church stands ready to engage, to the full, the moral powers of man.
It can rightly distribute the spiritual vitality of the world. It rouses
the moral emotions and affections, and gives scope for contrition,
adoration, and thanksgiving,--the Trisagion of the heart.

In the press and stir of life we sometimes forget that the highest
emotions of which we are capable are those of joy, praise, and prayer.
Joy is a heavenward uplift of life--deep happiness of spirit. Praise is
an appreciation of the greatness and mercy of the Infinite. Worship is
the outpouring of the whole nature, an ascription of blessing, glory,
honor, and power and majesty to God. It flows from the religious
imagination, and is the supreme offering of the intellectual as well as
of the emotional life.

The Church is a body ministrant: it has received the accolade of
spiritual service. It stands among the world's forces, as one of giving,
not of gain. It holds within its scope both a teaching and a training
power. It is the school of the soul, the illuminator of the meaning and
discipline of life. Abelard is said to have attracted thirty thousand
students to Paris by his teaching. But the Church to-day calls into its
assemblies fully one-third of the millions of the world. They are held
by its tenets, guided by its ideals, thrilled by its hopes, and set to
its works of charity and mercy. The highest philanthropy is but a
scientific renewal and adaptation of work which has had its start,
primarily, in the Christian Church. Wealth is its vicegerent, and from
the adherents to the 
Church fall largely the contributions to great
philanthropic causes.

Take the work of Missions alone: Has there ever before been a body which
attempted to bring the whole world into its fellowship, to make known
everywhere its ideals, and to share with all living a spiritual
inheritance? "The Evangelization of the World by this Generation" is
one of the most sublime thoughts which has come to the race.

4. There is a large amount of ability in the world which the Church
needs, but which has not yet been thoroughly enlisted in church service.
Take business energy, executive ability. It is a common saying, that
business men are not interested in the Church, and do not work well in
it. Why? Because there is not yet in the Church enough of the active and
economic spirit to make a business man feel at home in it, or approve of
its ways of work.

This weak spot in the Church, which business men mock at, or fret at,
exactly reveals the work that is waiting for business men to do.
Business to-day takes intellectual grasp and insight--promptness,
energy, enterprise, and common-sense. These qualities are needed at once
in the conduct of the Church.

A second class greatly needed by the Church is the university-bred. Many
college graduates are church-members--some are even active workers. But
until lately the universities as a whole have stood rather indifferently
apart from the Church. They have somewhat indulgently regarded it as one
more historic institution for preserving myth and legend. To them the
Christ-life has meant little more than the Beowa-myth, the Arthur-saga,
the Nibelungen cycle, the Homeric stories, the Thor-and-Odin tales!
Druids, fire-worshippers, moon-dancers, and Christian communicants have
been comparatively studied, with a view to understanding the
race-progress in rite and religious form.

This spirit is changing. The most remarkable aspect of the intellectual
life of to-day is the rise of faith in the universities. Like the
incoming of a great tidal wave at sea is the wave of spiritual insight
and
 religious aspiration that is rolling over the colleges of our land.

The whole intellectual structure of the Church is approaching
reconstruction--its doctrines, creeds, tenets. This reconstruction
cannot possibly be effected by schools of theology alone. At every point
the theologian needs assistance from the man of science. Philosophy,
psychology, ethics, history, literature, sociology, language, natural
science, and archaeology are all bound up in an old creed and must be
looked into, ere a new statement can take form. Their data must be known
at first-hand. Hence there is no intellectual specialty which may not be
made invaluable to the Church.

Too often religion has been a matter of hearsay or dogma. A bitter
conflict has always raged between theology and the latest word of
science. The Church cannot afford to be without the scientific thinkers
of the race. The time has come when there is everywhere heard the call
of Jesus to men of mind.

What work awaits the university man or woman? It is to help free the
Church from traditions and superstitions which scholarship cannot
uphold. It is to throw fresh vigor and intellectual vitality into the
services of the Church. It is to build up a hymnology which shall be
noble and poetic in expression; it is to contribute a great religious
literature to the world. It is the work of educated men and women to add
their insight, their zeal for truth, their scholarship, their training
and ideals to the Christian community: to sweep thought and practice out
of ancient ruts, to clarify the spiritual vision of the world, and to
present new aspects of truth and new goals of human endeavor! Let
Research join hands with Prayer.

A third class which the Church needs to-day is that of the working-man.
The hand of the working-man is the hand that has really moulded history.
Working-men lead a brave and self-sacrificing life. From their toil come
the necessaries and many of the comforts of the race. The man of labor
knows the root-problems of the industrial world. While all his indu
stry
and skill, all his courage, heroism, and strong-armed life are so
largely alienated from the Church, the Church is deprived of one of the
fundamental sources of inspiration and growth. The tree of progress can
never grow, except it has labor-roots. It is absolutely essential for
the health of the Church that every form of human energy be represented.

Suppose that by some great revival a very large number of working men
and women could suddenly be added to the membership of the Church. What
would happen? Would there not be at once a return to more simplicity of
life? There are two currents at work always in society--emulation and
sympathy. Rightly used, each is for the social good. If all classes of
men and women worked side by side in the Church, many great social
differences would become adjusted.

5. It holds sway over the fortunes of the home. Where, outside of the
Church, will you find the ideal conception of marriage, and the really
united and happy home? The Church makes for domestic happiness, because
it goes straight to the roots of life and plants happiness where
happiness alone can grow. More and more the Church is lifting the
standards of a noble, proud, pure, and rejoicing married life. Its ideal
of human love is sacred, because founded on the deeper love of the soul
in God. The Church is drawing hosts of young people under the shelter of
its teaching, and is placing before men and women ideals which cannot
fail to make their mark upon the social standards of the times. It
stands for purity, for patience, for tenderness, for the love of little
children, for united education and endeavor, for mutual hopes and
dreams, for large public service.

6. It is the militant force of time. We speak of the Church militant,
and of the Church triumphant. For us, to-day, the Church militant.
To-morrow, triumph comes. Armies have been, and armies shall be, but the
hosts of this world fight against material foes, and largely for
material ends. It is the glory of the Church militant that its conquests
are spiritu
al and its victories are eternal. Its fight is chiefly
against the inner, not the outer foe--against sin and wrong-doing,
impatience, strife, anger, clamor, meanness, evil-speaking, wrath. It is
the foe of tyranny and its heel is upon the head of the oppressor and
the avenger. Its banner flies over every country and has been carried
through tribulation, through sorrow, through danger, and through death
to the remotest parts of the yet-known world. Its troops are legion,
marching from the far distances of the past, and extending out to the
far confines of the eternal years.

7. It is the ascendant force of the future. Rightly conducted, it will
surely absorb the vigor of the world. To stand apart from it is to be
out of step with the march of nations. The processional of progress
to-day is the processional of the historic influence of the Church. What
force has there been in time gone by, which has lived and so greatly
grown for nineteen hundred years? Nations have risen, and nations have
decayed. States, once prominent, have passed into the oblivion of the
years. Plato and Pericles, Socrates and Sophocles, Philip and Alexander,
the Caesars, the Georges, and the Louis have passed away. Their
politics have passed from our following; their empires are no more. But
through these centuries of change, the Church of God has risen stronger,
more powerful year by year; stretching its arm out to the uttermost
parts of the earth; levying tribute on the islands of the sea; enlisting
all ages and conditions, and looking out over coming generations--not as
a waning, but as a growing and ever-increasing power. Think you that
such a Church can die? Think you that any spiritual power aloof from
this Church can be as efficient as if it were allied with it?

These, you say, are the reasons why one's allegiance should be given to
the Christian Church. Let us now look back over the processional as it
marches across the dim years. Saints, martyrs, confessors, evangelists,
and singing children have joined its historic train. Is there a
ny other
processional in the world's history which, numbering such millions and
millions, began with only one? When the Christ enters the arena of
history, He comes as one to lead myriad deep-lived souls! Next, there
follow twelve. They, two by two, take up the marching line. Think of
their deeds and influence, of their inspiring power! What would have
been the record of those obscure fishermen of Galilee and of their
simple friends, had they refused to ally themselves with the leader who
called for their allegiance and their obedient love?

Next follow the early disciples. Tried by scourging, by stripes, by
poverty, by imprisonment, by all manner of danger and trial, they yet
remain true. Then follow the prophets, those whose clear vision looks
out on things unknown and things unseen. To the prophet is intrusted the
ministry of hope and inspiration. Then follow the martyrs who yield life
for the cause they profess. In torture at the stake, and on the cross,
by fire and by sword, they show forth an unshaken and undying faith.
Then follow matrons and virgins, babes and children, reformers and
mediaeval saints with a convoy of angels, singing as they march. These
are the Church triumphant, the Church above. But to-day we have among us
the Church militant--the long processional of congregations, elders,
deacons, members, ministers and missionaries, young people, and workers
in every phase of enterprise and reform. These all communicant on earth
are the Church militant, whose work is to keep alive the traditions of
the past and to march onward to an endless victory and to an unceasing
praise. Who, looking upon that processional, filing through the ages of
the years of man, would say that there may be a parliament of religions?
A parliament of boasts and pomps, of good precepts and queries, of
misuses and half-truths, of superstitions and infinite idolatries, no
doubt; but there is but one religion, though it be perverted in many
ways and rightly revealed at divers times; and there is but one God,
infinite, true, holy
<|endoftext|>
This etext was produced by Gardner Buchanan.

CHRONICLES OF CANADA
Edited by George M. Wrong and H. H. Langton
In thirty-two volumes

Volume 12

THE FATHER OF BRITISH CANADA
A Chronicle of Carleton

By WILLIAM WOOD
TORONTO, 1916

CONTENTS

I. GUY CARLETON, 1724-1759
II. GENERAL MURRAY, 1759-1766
III. GOVERNOR CARLETON, 1766-1774
IV. INVASION, 1776
V. BELEAGUERMENT, 1775-1776
VI. DELIVERANCE, 1776
VII. THE COUNTERSTROKE, 1776-1778
VIII. GUARDING THE LOYALISTS, 1782-1783
IX. FOUNDING MODERN CANADA, 1786-1796
X. 'NUNC DIMITTIS,' 1796-1808

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

CHAPTER I

GUY CARLETON
1724-1759

Guy Carleton, first Baron Dorchester, was born at Strabane,
County Tyrone, on the 3rd of September 1724, the anniversary
of Cromwell's two great victories and death. He came of
a very old family of English country gentlemen which had
migrated to Ireland in the seventeenth century and
intermarried with other Anglo-Irish families equally
devoted to the service of the British Crown. Guy's father
was Christopher Carleton of Newry in County Down. His
mother was Catherine Ball of County Donegal. His father
died comparatively young; and, when he was himself fifteen,
his mother married the rector of Newry, the Reverend
Thomas Skelton, whose influence over the six step-children
of the household worked wholly for their good.

At eighteen Guy received his first commission as ensign
in the 25th Foot, then known as Lord Rothes' regiment
and now as the King's Own Scottish Borderers. At
twenty-three he fought gallantly at the siege of
Bergen-op-Zoom. Four years later (1751) he was a lieutenant
in the Grenadier Guards. He was one of those quiet men
whose sterling value is appreciated only by the few till
some crisis makes it stand forth before the world at
large. Pitt, Wolfe, and George II all recognized his
solid virtues. At thirty he was still some way down the
list of lieutenants in the Grenadiers, while Wolfe, two
years his junior in age, had been four years in command
of a battalion with the rank of lieutenant-colonel. Yet
he had long 
been 'my friend Carleton' to Wolfe, he was
soon to become one of 'Pitt's Young Men,' and he was
enough of a 'coming man' to incur the king's displeasure.
He had criticized the Hanoverians; and the king never
forgave him. The third George 'gloried in the name of
Englishman.' But the first two were Hanoverian all through.
And for an English guardsman to disparage the Hanoverian
army was considered next door to _lese-majeste_.

Lady Dorchester burnt all her husband's private papers
after his death in 1808; so we have lost some of the most
intimate records concerning him. But 'grave Carleton'
appears so frequently in the letters of his friend Wolfe
that we can see his character as a young man in almost
any aspect short of self-revelation. The first reference
has nothing to do with affairs of state. In 1747 Wolfe,
aged twenty, writing to Miss Lacey, an English girl in
Brussels, and signing himself 'most sincerely your friend
and admirer,' says: 'I was doing the greatest injustice
to the dear girls to admit the least doubt of their
constancy. Perhaps with respect to ourselves there may
be cause of complaint. Carleton, I'm afraid, is a recent
example of it.' From this we may infer that Carleton was
less 'grave' as a young man than Wolfe found him later
on. Six years afterwards Wolfe strongly recommended him
for a position which he had himself been asked to fill,
that of military tutor to the young Duke of Richmond,
who was to get a company in Wolfe's own regiment. Writing
home from Paris in 1753 Wolfe tells his mother that the
duke 'wants some skilful man to travel with him through
the Low Countries and into Lorraine. I have proposed my
friend Carleton, whom Lord Albemarle approves of.' Lord
Albemarle was the British ambassador to France; so Carleton
got the post and travelled under the happiest auspices,
while learning the frontier on which the Belgian, French,
and British allies were to fight the Germans in the Great
World War of 1914. It was during this military tour of
fortified places that Carleton acquired the eng
ineering
skill which a few years later proved of such service to
the British cause in Canada.

In 1754 George Washington, at that time a young Virginian
officer of only twenty-two, fired the first shot in what
presently became the world-wide Seven Years' War. The
immediate result was disastrous to the British arms; and
Washington had to give up the command of the Ohio by
surrendering Fort Necessity to the French on--of all
dates--the 4th of July! In 1755 came Braddock's defeat.
In 1756 Montcalm arrived in Canada and won his first
victory at Oswego. In 1757 Wolfe distinguished himself
by formulating the plan which, if properly executed,
would have prevented the British fiasco at Rochefort on
the coast of France. But Carleton remained as undistinguished
as before. He simply became lieutenant-colonel commanding
the 72nd Foot, now the Seaforth Highlanders. In 1758 his
chance appeared to have come at last. Amherst had asked
for his services at Louisbourg. But the king had neither
forgotten nor forgiven the remarks about the Hanoverians,
and so refused point-blank, to Wolfe's 'very great grief
and disappointment... It is a public loss Carleton's not
going.' Wolfe's confidence in Carleton, either as a friend
or as an officer, was stronger than ever. Writing to
George Warde, afterwards the famous cavalry leader, he
said: 'Accidents may happen in the family that may throw
my little affairs into disorder. Carleton is so good as
to say he will give what help is in his power. May I ask
the same favour of you, my oldest friend?' Writing to
Lord George Sackville, of whom we shall hear more than
enough at the crisis of Carleton's career Wolfe said:
'Amherst will tell you his opinion of Carleton, by which
you will probably be better convinced of our loss.' Again,
'We want grave Carleton for every purpose of the war.'
And yet again, after the fall of Louisbourg: 'If His
Majesty had thought proper to let Carleton come with us
as engineer it would have cut the matter much shorter
and we might now be ruining the walls of Quebec and

completing the conquest of New France.' A little later
on Wolfe blazes out with indignation over Carleton's
supersession by a junior. 'Can Sir John Ligonier (the
commander-in-chief) allow His Majesty to remain
unacquainted with the merit of that officer, and can he
see such a mark of displeasure without endeavouring to
soften or clear the matter up a little? A man of honour
has the right to expect the protection of his Colonel
and of the Commander of the troops, and he can't serve
without it. If I was in Carleton's place I wouldn't stay
an hour in the Army after being aimed at and distinguished
in so remarkable a manner.' But Carleton bided his time.

At the beginning of 1759 Wolfe was appointed to command
the army destined to besiege Quebec. He immediately
submitted Carleton's name for appointment as
quartermaster-general. Pitt and Ligonier heartily approved.
But the king again refused. Ligonier went back a second
time to no purpose. Pitt then sent him in for the third
time, saying, in a tone meant for the king to overhear:
'Tell His Majesty that in order to render the General
[Wolfe] completely responsible for his conduct he should
be made, as far as possible, inexcusable if he should
fail; and that whatever an officer entrusted with such
a service of confidence requests ought therefore to be
granted.' The king then consented. Thus began Carleton's
long, devoted, and successful service for Canada, the
Empire, and the Crown.

Early in this memorable Empire Year of 1759 he sailed
with Wolfe and Saunders from Spithead. On the 30th of
April the fleet rendezvoused at Halifax, where Admiral
Durell, second-in-command to Saunders, had spent the
winter with a squadron intended to block the St Lawrence
directly navigation opened in the spring. Durell was a
good commonplace officer, but very slow. He had lost many
hands from sickness during a particularly cold season,
and he was not enterprising enough to start cruising
round Cabot Strait before the month of May. Saunders,
greatly annoyed by this delay, sent him off with 
eight
men-of-war on the 5th of May. Wolfe gave him seven hundred
soldiers under Carleton. These forces were sufficient to
turn back, capture, or destroy the twenty-three French
merchantmen which were then bound for Quebec with supplies
and soldiers as reinforcements for Montcalm. But the
French ships were a week ahead of Durell; and, when he
landed Carleton at Isle-aux-Coudres on the 28th of May,
the last of the enemy's transports had already discharged
her cargo at Quebec, sixty miles above.

Isle-aux-Coudres, so named by Jacques Cartier in 1535,
was a point of great strategic importance; for it commanded
the only channel then used. It was the place Wolfe had
chosen for his winter quarters, that is, in case of
failure before Quebec and supposing he was not recalled.
None but a particularly good officer would have been
appointed as its first commandant. Carleton spent many
busy days here preparing an advanced base for the coming
siege, while the subsequently famous Captain Cook was
equally busy 'a-sounding of the channell of the Traverse'
which the fleet would have to pass on its way to Quebec.
Some of Durell's ships destroyed the French 'long-shore
batteries near this Traverse, at the lower end of the
island of Orleans, while the rest kept ceaseless watch
to seaward, anxiously scanning the offing, day after day,
to make out the colours of the first fleet up. No one
knew what the French West India fleet would do; and there
was a very disconcerting chance that it might run north
and slip into the St Lawrence, ahead of Saunders, in the
same way as the French reinforcements had just slipped
in ahead of Durell. Presently, at the first streak of
dawn on the 23rd of June, a strong squadron was seen
advancing rapidly under a press of sail. Instantly the
officers of the watch called all hands up from below.
The boatswains' whistles shrilled across the water as
the seamen ran to quarters and cleared the decks for
action. Carleton's camp was equally astir. The guards
turned out. The bugles sounded. The men fell in and
wait
ed. Then the flag-ship signalled ashore that the
strangers had just answered correctly in private code
that all was well and that Wolfe and Saunders were aboard.

Next to Wolfe himself Carleton was the busiest man
in the army throughout the siege of Quebec. In addition
to his arduous and very responsible duties as
quartermaster-general, he acted as inspector of engineers
and as a special-service officer for work of an
exceptionally confidential nature. As quartermaster-general
he superintended the supply and transport branches.
Considering that the army was operating in a devastated
hostile country, a thousand miles away from its bases at
Halifax and Louisbourg, and that the interaction of the
different services--naval and military, Imperial and
Colonial--required adjustment to a nicety at every turn,
it was wonderful that so much was done so well with means
which were far from being adequate. War prices of course
ruled in the British camp. But they compared very favourably
with the famine prices in Quebec, where most 'luxuries'
soon became unobtainable at any price. There were no
canteen or camp-follower scandals under Carleton. Then,
as now, every soldier had a regulation ration of food
and a regulation allowance for his service kit. But
'extras' were always acceptable. The price-list of these
'extras' reads strangely to modern ears. But, under the
circumstances, it was not exorbitant, and it was slightly
tempered by being reckoned in Halifax currency of four
dollars to the pound instead of five. The British Tommy
Atkins of that and many a later day thought Canada a
wonderful country for making money go a long way when he
could buy a pot of beer for twopence and get back thirteen
pence Halifax currency as change for his English shilling.
Beef and ham ran from ninepence to a shilling a pound.
Mutton was a little dearer. Salt butter was eightpence
to one-and-threepence. Cheese was tenpence; potatoes from
five to ten shillings a bushel. 'A reasonable loaf of
good soft Bread' cost sixpence. Soap was a shilling a
po
und. Tea was prohibitive for all but the officers.
'Plain Green Tea and very Badd' was fifteen shillings,
'Couchon' twenty shillings, 'Hyson' thirty. Leaf tobacco
was tenpence a pound, roll one-and-tenpence, snuff
two-and-threepence. Sugar was a shilling to eighteen
pence. Lemons were sixpence apiece. The non-intoxicating
'Bad Sproos Beer' was only twopence a quart and helped
to keep off scurvy. Real beer, like wine and spirits,
was more expensive. 'Bristol Beer' was eighteen shillings
a dozen, 'Bad malt Drink from Hellifax' ninepence a quart.
Rum and claret were eight shillings a gallon each, port
and Madeira ten and twelve respectively. The term 'Bad'
did not then mean noxious, but only inferior. It stood
against every low-grade article in the price-list. No
goods were over-classified while Carleton was
quartermaster-general.

The engineers were under-staffed, under-manned, and
overworked. There were no Royal Engineers as a permanent
and comprehensive corps till the time of Wellington.
Wolfe complained bitterly and often of the lack of men
and materials for scientific siege work. But he 'relied
on Carleton' to good purpose in this respect as well as
in many others. In his celebrated dispatch to Pitt he
mentions Carleton twice. It was Carleton whom he sent to
seize the west end of the island of Orleans, so as to
command the basin of Quebec, and Carleton whom he sent to
take prisoners and gather information at Pointe-aux-Trembles,
twenty miles above the city. Whether or not he revealed
the whole of his final plan to Carleton is probably more
than we shall ever know, since Carleton's papers were
destroyed. But we do know that he did not reveal it to
any one else, not even to his three brigadiers, Monckton,
Townshend, and Murray.

Carleton was wounded in the head during the Battle of
the Plains; but soon returned to duty. Wolfe showed his
confidence in him to the last. Carleton's was the only
name mentioned twice in the will which Wolfe handed over
to Jervis, the future Lord St Vincent, the night before
the battle.
 'I leave to Colonel Oughton, Colonel Carleton,
Colonel Howe, and Colonel Warde a thousand pounds each.'
'All my books and papers, both here and in England, I
leave to Colonel Carleton.' Wolfe's mother, who died five
years later, showed the same confidence by appointing
Carleton her executor.

With the fall of Quebec in 1759 Carleton disappears from
the Canadian scene till 1766. But so many pregnant events
happened in Canada during these seven years, while so
few happened in his own career, that it is much more
important for us to follow her history than his biography.

In 1761 he was wounded at the storming of Port Andro
during the attack on Belle Isle off the west coast of
France. In 1762 he was wounded at Havana in the West
Indies. After that he enjoyed four years of quietness at
home. Then came the exceedingly difficult task of guiding
Canada through twelve years of turbulent politics and
most subversive war.

CHAPTER II

GENERAL MURRAY
1759-1766

Both armies spent a terrible winter after the Battle of
the Plains. There was better shelter for the French in
Montreal than for the British among the ruins of Quebec.
But in the matter of food the positions were reversed.
Nevertheless the French gallantly refused the truce
offered them by Murray, who had now succeeded Wolfe. They
were determined to make a supreme effort to regain Quebec
in the spring; and they were equally determined that the
habitants should not be free to supply the British with
provisions.

In spite of the state of war, however, the French and
British officers, even as prisoners and captors, began
to make friends. They had found each other foemen worthy
of their steel. A distinguished French officer, the Comte
de Malartic, writing to Levis, Montcalm's successor,
said: 'I cannot speak too highly of General Murray,
although he is our enemy.' Murray, on his part, was
equally loud and generous in his praise of the French.
The Canadian seigneurs found fellow-gentlemen among
the British officers. The priests and nuns of Quebec
found many fellow-Cathol
ics among the Scottish and Irish
troops, and nothing but courteous treatment from the
soldiers of every rank and form of religion. Murray
directed that 'the compliment of the hat' should be paid
to all religious processions. The Ursuline nuns knitted
long stockings for the bare-legged Highlanders when the
winter came on, and presented each Scottish officer with
an embroidered St Andrew's Cross on the 30th of November,
St Andrew's Day. The whole garrison won the regard of
the town by giving up part of their rations for the hungry
poor; while the habitants from the surrounding country
presently began to find out that the British were honest
to deal with and most humane, though sternly just, as
conquerors.

In the following April Levis made his desperate throw
for victory; and actually did succeed in defeating Murray
outside the walls of Quebec. But the British fleet came
up in May; and that summer three British armies converged
on Montreal, where the last doomed remnants of French
power on the St Lawrence stood despairingly at bay. When
Levis found his two thousand effective French regulars
surrounded by eight times as many British troops he had
no choice but to lay down the arms of France for ever.
On the 8th of September 1760 his gallant little army was
included in the Capitulation of Montreal, by which the
whole of Canada passed into the possession of the British
Crown.

Great Britain had a different general idea for each one
of the four decades which immediately followed the conquest
of Canada. In the sixties the general idea was to kill
refractory old French ways with a double dose of new
British liberty and kindness, so that Canada might
gradually become the loyal fourteenth colony of the Empire
in America. But the fates were against this benevolent
scheme. The French Canadians were firmly wedded to their
old ways of life, except in so far as the new liberty
enabled them to throw off irksome duties and restraints,
while the new English-speaking 'colonists' were so few,
and mostly so bad, that they became the 
cause of endless
discord where harmony was essential. In the seventies
the idea was to restore the old French-Canadian life so
as not only to make Canada proof against the disaffection
of the Thirteen Colonies but also to make her a safe base
of operations against rebellious Americans. In the eighties
the great concern of the government was to make a harmonious
whole out of two very widely differing parts--the
long-settled French Canadians and the newly arrived United
Empire Loyalists. In the nineties each of these parts
was set to work out its own salvation under its own
provincial constitution.

Carleton's is the only personality which links together
all four decades--the would-be American sixties, the
French-Canadian seventies, the Anglo-French-Canadian
eighties, and the bi-constitutional nineties--though, as
mentioned already, Murray ruled Canada for the first
seven years, 1759-66.

James Murray, the first British governor of Canada, was
a younger son of the fourth Lord Elibank. He was just
over forty, warm-hearted and warm-tempered, an excellent
French scholar, and every inch a soldier. He had been a
witness for the defence of Mordaunt at the court-martial
held to try the authors of the Rochefort fiasco in 1757.
Wolfe, who was a witness on the other side, referred to
him later on as 'my old antagonist Murray.' But Wolfe
knew a good man when he saw one and gave his full confidence
to his 'old antagonist' both at Louisbourg and Quebec.
Murray was not born under a lucky star. He saw three
defeats in three successive wars. He began his service
with the abortive attack on pestilential Cartagena, where
Wolfe's father was present as adjutant-general. In
mid-career he lost the battle of Ste Foy. [Footnote:
See _The Winning of Canada_, chap. viii. See also, for
the best account of this battle and other events of the
year between Wolfe's victory and the surrender of Montreal,
_The Fall of Canada_, by George M. Wrong. Oxford, 1914.]
And his active military life ended with his surrender of
Minorca in 1782. But he was gr
eatly distinguished for
honour and steadfastness on all occasions. An admiring
contemporary described him as a model of all the military
virtues except prudence. But he had more prudence and
less genius than his admirer thought; and he showed a
marked talent for general government. The problem before
him was harder than his superiors could believe. He was
expected to prepare for assimilation some sixty-five
thousand 'new subjects' who were mostly alien in religion
and wholly alien in every other way. But, for the moment,
this proved the least of his many difficulties because
no immediate results were required.

While the war went on in Europe Canada remained nominally
a part of the enemy's dominions, and so, of course, was
subject to military rule. Sir Jeffery Amherst, the British
commander-in-chief in America, took up his headquarters
in New York. Under him Murray commanded Canada from
Quebec. Under Murray, Colonel Burton commanded the district
of Three Rivers while General Gage commanded the district
of Montreal, which then extended to the western wilds.
[Footnote: See _The War Chief of the Ottawas_, chap. iii.]

Murray's first great trouble arose in 1761. It was caused
by an outrageous War Office order that fourpence a day
should be stopped from the soldiers to pay for the rations
they had always got free. Such gross injustice, coming
in time of war and applied to soldiers who richly deserved
reward, made the veterans 'mad with rage.' Quebec promised
to be the scene of a wild mutiny. Murray, like all his
officers, thought the stoppage nothing short of robbery.
But he threw himself into the breach. He assembled the
officers and explained that they must die to the last
man rather than allow the mutineers a free hand. He then
held a general parade at which he ordered the troops to
march between two flag-poles on pain of instant death,
promising to kill with his own hands the first man who
refused. He added that he was ready to hear and forward
any well-founded complaint, but that, since insubordination
had been o
penly threatened, he would insist on subordination
being publicly shown. Then, amid tense silence, he gave
the word of command--_Quick, March!_--while every officer
felt his trigger. To the immense relief of all concerned
the men stepped off, marched straight between the flags
and back to quarters, tamed. The criminal War Office
blunder was rectified and peace was restored in the ranks.

'Murray's Report' of 1762 gives us a good view of the
Canada of that day and shows the attitude of the British
towards their new possession. Canada had been conquered
by Great Britain, with some help from the American
colonies, for three main reasons: first, to strike a
death-blow at French dominion in America; secondly, to
increase the opportunities of British seaborne trade;
and, thirdly, to enlarge the area available for British
settlement. When Murray was instructed to prepare a report
on Canada he had to keep all this in mind; for the
government wished to satisfy the public both at home and
in the colonies. He had to examine the military strength
of the country and the disposition of its population in
case of future wars with France. He had to satisfy the
natural curiosity of men like the London merchants. And
he had to show how and where English-speaking settlers
could go in and make Canada not only a British possession
but the fourteenth British colony in North America. Burton
and Gage were also instructed to report about their own
districts of Three Rivers and Montreal. The documents
they prepared were tacked on to Murray's. By June 1762
the work was completed and sent on to Amherst, who sent
it to England in ample time to be studied there before
the opening of the impending negotiations for peace.

Murray was greatly concerned about the military strength
of Quebec, then, as always, the key of Canada. Like the
unfortunate Montcalm he found the walls of Quebec badly
built, badly placed, and falling into ruins, and he
thought they could not be defended by three thousand men
against 'a well conducted _Coup-de-main_.' He prop
osed
to crown Cape Diamond with a proper citadel, which would
overawe the disaffected in Quebec itself and defend the
place against an outside enemy long enough to let a
British fleet come up to its relief. The rest of the
country was defended by little garrisons at Three Rivers
and Montreal as well as by several small detachments
distributed among the trading-posts where the white men
and the red met in the depths of the western wilderness.

The relations between the British garrison and the French
Canadians were so excellent that what Gage reported from
Montreal might be taken as equally true of the rest of
the country: 'The Soldiers live peaceably with the
Inhabitants and they reciprocally acquire an affection
for each other.' The French Canadians numbered sixty-five
thousand altogether, exclusive of the fur traders and
coureurs de bois. Barely fifteen thousand lived in the
three little towns of Quebec, Montreal, and Three Rivers;
while over fifty thousand lived in the country. Nearly
all the officials had gone back to France. The three
classes of greatest importance were the seigneurs, the
clergy, and the habitants. The lawyers were not of much
account; the petty commercial classes of less account
still. The coureurs de bois and other fur traders formed
an important link between the savage and the civilized
life of the country.

Apart from furs the trade of Canada was contemptibly
small in the eyes of men like the London merchants. But
the opportunity of fostering all the fur trade that could
be carried down the St Lawrence was very well worth while;
and if there was no other existing trade worth capturing
there seemed to be some kinds worth creating. Murray held
out well-grounded hopes of the fisheries and forests. 'A
Most immense Cod Fishery can be established in the River
and Gulph of St Lawrence. A rich tract of country on the
South Side of the Gulph will be settled and improved,
and a port or ports furnished with every material requisite
to repair ships.' He then went on to enumerate the other
kinds of f
ishery, the abundance of whales, seals, and
walruses in the Gulf, and of salmon up all the tributary
rivers. Burton recommends immediate attention to the iron
mines behind Three Rivers. All the governors expatiate
on the vast amount of forest wealth and remind the home
government that under the French regime the king, when
making out patents for the seigneurs, reserved the right
of taking wood for ship-building and fortifications from
any of the seigneuries. Agriculture was found to be in
a very backward state. The habitants would raise no more
than they required for their own use and for a little
local trade. But the fault was attributed to the gambling
attractions of the fur trade, to the bad governmental
system, and to the frequent interruptions of the _corvee_,
a kind of forced labour which was meant to serve the
public interest, but which Bigot and other thievish
officials always turned to their own private advantage.
On the whole, the reports were most encouraging in the
prospects they held out to honest labour, trade, and
government.

While Murray and his lieutenants had been collecting
information for their reports the home government had
been undergoing many changes for the worse. The
master-statesman Pitt had gone out of power and the
back-stairs politician Bute had come in. Pitt's 'bloody
and expensive war'--the war that more than any other,
laid the foundations of the present British Empire--was
to be ended on any terms the country could be persuaded
to bear. Thus the end of the Seven Years' War, or, as
the British part of it was more correctly called, the
'Maritime War,' was no more glorious in statesmanship
than its beginning had been in arms. But the spirit of
its mighty heart still lived on in the Empire's grateful
memories of Pitt and quickened the English-speaking world
enough to prevent any really disgraceful surrender of
the hard-won fruits of victory.

The Treaty of Paris, signed on the 10th of February 1763,
and the king's proclamation, published in October, were
duly followed by the inaugur
ation of civil government in
Canada. The incompetent Bute, anxious to get Pitt out of
the way, tried to induce him to become the first British
governor of the new colony. Even Bute probably never
dared to hope that Pitt would actually go out to Canada.
But he did hope to lower his prestige by making him the
holder of a sinecure at home. However this may be, Pitt,
mightiest of all parliamentary ministers of war, refused
to be made either a jobber or an exile; whereupon Murray's
position was changed from a military command into that
of 'Governor and Captain-General.'

The changes which ensued in the laws of Canada were
heartily welcomed so far as the adoption of the humaner
criminal code of England was concerned. The new laws
relating to debtor and creditor also gave general
satisfaction, except, as we shall presently see, when
they involved imprisonment for debt. But the tentative
efforts to introduce English civil law side by side with
the old French code resulted in great confusion and much
discontent. The land laws had become so unworkable under
this dual system that they had to be left as they were.
A Court of Common Pleas was set up specially for the
benefit of the French Canadians. If either party demanded
a jury one had to be sworn in; and French Canadians were
to be jurors on equal terms with 'the King's Old Subjects.'
The Roman Catholic Church was to be completely tolerated
but not in any way established. Lord Egremont, in giving
the king's instructions to Murray, reminded him that the
proviso in the Treaty of Paris--_as far as the Laws of
Great Britain permit_--should govern his action whenever
disputes arose. It must be remembered that the last
Jacobite rising was then a comparatively recent affair,
and that France was equally ready to upset either the
Protestant succession in England or the British regime
in Canada.

The Indians were also an object of special solicitude in
the royal proclamation. 'The Indians who live under our
Protection should not be molested in the possession of
such parts of our Do
minions and Territories as, not having
been ceded to or purchased by Us, are reserved to them.'
The home government was far in advance of the American
colonists in its humane attitude towards the Indians.
The common American attitude then and long afterwards
--indeed, up to a time well within living memory--was
that Indians were a kind of human vermin to be exterminated
without mercy, unless, of course, more money was to be
made out of them alive. The result was an endless struggle
along the ever-receding frontier of the West. And just
at this particular time the 'Conspiracy of Pontiac' had
brought about something like a real war. The story of
this great effort of the Indians to stem the encroachments
of the exterminating colonists is told in another chronicle
of the present Series. [Footnote: The War Chief of the
Ottawas.] The French traders in the West undoubtedly had
a hand in stirring up the Indians. Pontiac, a sort of
Indian Napoleon, was undoubtedly cruel as well as crafty.
And the Indians undoubtedly fought just as the ancestors
of the French and British used to fight when they were
at the corresponding stage of social evolution. But the
mere fact that so many jealously distinct tribes united
in this common cause proves how much they all must have
suffered at the hands of the colonists.

While Pontiac's war continued in the West Murray had to
deal with a political war in Canada which rose to its
height in 1764. The king's proclamation of the previous
October had 'given express Power to our Governor that,
so soon as the state and circumstances of the said Colony
will admit thereof, he shall call a General Assembly in
such manner and form as is used in those Colonies and
Provinces in America which are under our immediate
government.' The intention of establishing parliamentary
institutions was, therefore, perfectly clear. But it was
equally clear that the introduction of such institutions
was to depend on 'circumstances,' and it is well to
remember here that these 'circumstances' were not held
to warrant the
 opening of a Canadian parliament till
1792. Now, the military government had been a great
success. There was every reason to suppose that civil
government by a governor and council would be the next
best thing. And it was quite certain that calling a
'General Assembly' at once would defeat the very ends
which such bodies are designed to serve. More than
ninety-nine per cent of the population were dead against
an assembly which none of them understood and all
distrusted. On the other hand, the clamorous minority of
less than one per cent were in favour only of a parliament
from which the majority should be rigorously excluded,
even, if possible, as voters. The immense majority
comprised the entire French-Canadian community. The
absurdly small minority consisted mostly of Americanized
camp-following traders, who, having come to fish in
troubled waters, naturally wanted the laws made to suit
poachers. The British garrison, the governing officials,
and the very few other English-speaking people of a more
enlightened class all looked down on the rancorous
minority. The whole question resolved itself into this:
should Canada be handed over to the licensed exploitation
of a few hundred low-class camp-followers, who had done
nothing to win her for the British Empire, who were
despised by those who had, and who promised to be a
dangerous thorn in the side of the new colony?

What this ridiculous minority of grab-alls really wanted
was not a parliament but a rump. Many a representative
assembly has ended in a rump, The grab-alls wished to
begin with one and stop there. It might be supposed that
such pretensions would defeat themselves. But there was
a twofold difficulty in the way of getting the truth
understood by the English-speaking public on both sides
of the Atlantic. In the first place, the French Canadians
were practically dumb to the outside world. In the second,
the vociferous rumpites had the ear of some English and
more American commercial people who were not anxious to
understand; while the great mass of the g
eneral public
were inclined to think, if they ever thought at all, that
parliamentary government must mean more liberty for every
one concerned.

A singularly apt commentary on the pretensions of the
camp-followers is supplied by the famous, or infamous,
'Presentment of the Grand Jury of Quebec' in October
1764. The moving spirits of this precious jury were
aspirants to membership in the strictly exclusive, rumpish
little parliament of their own seeking. The signatures
of the French-Canadian members were obtained by fraud,
as was subsequently proved by a sworn official protestation.
The first presentment tells its own tale, as it refers
to the only courts in which French-Canadian lawyers were
allowed to plead. 'The great number of inferior Courts
are tiresome, litigious, and expensive to this poor
Colony.' Then came a hit at the previous military
rule--'That Decrees of the military Courts may be amended
[after having been confirmed by legal ordinance] by
allowing Appeals if the matter decided exceed Ten Pounds,'
which would put it out of the reach of the 'inferior
Courts' and into the clutches of 'the King's Old Subjects.'
But the gist of it all was contained in the following:
'We represent that as the Grand Jury must be considered
at present as the only Body representative of the Colony,
... We propose that the Publick Accounts be laid before
the Grand Jury at least twice a year.' That the grand
jury was to be purged of all its French-Canadian members
is evident from the addendum slipped in behind their
backs. This addendum is a fine specimen of verbose
invective against 'the Church of Rome,' the Pope, Bulls,
Briefs, absolutions, etc., the empanelling 'en Grand and
petty Jurys' of '<DW7> or popish Recusants Convict,'
and so on.

The 'Presentment of the Grand Jury' was presently followed
by _The Humble Petition of Your Majesty's most faithful
and loyal Subjects, British Merchants and Traders, in
behalf of Themselves and their fellow Subjects, Inhabitants
of Your Majesty's Province of Quebec_. 'Their fellow
Subjec
ts' did not, of course, include any '<DW7> or
popish Recusants Convict.' Among the 'Grievances and
Distresses' enumerated were 'the oppressive and severely
felt Military government,' the inability to 'reap the
fruit of our Industry' under such a martinet as Murray,
who, in one paragraph, is accused of 'suppressing dutyfull
Remonstrances in Silence' and, in the next, of 'treating
them with a Rage and Rudeness of Language and Demeanor
as dishonourable to the Trust he holds of Your Majesty
as painfull to Those who suffer from it.' Finally, the
petitioners solemnly warn His Majesty that their 'Lives
in the Province are so very unhappy that we must be under
the Necessity of removing from it, unless timely prevented
by a Removal of the present Governor.'

In forwarding this document Murray poured out the vials
of his wrath on 'the Licentious Fanaticks Trading here,'
while he boldly championed the cause of the French
Canadians, 'a Race, who, could they be indulged with a
few priveledges which the Laws of England deny to Roman
Catholicks at home, would soon get the better of every
National Antipathy to their Conquerors and become the
most faithful and most useful set of Men in this American
Empire.'

While these charges and counter-charges were crossing
the Atlantic another, and much more violent, trouble came
to a head. As there were no barracks in Canada billeting
was a necessity. It was made as little burdensome as
possible and the houses of magistrates were specially
exempt. This, however, did not prevent the magistrates
from baiting the military whenever they got the chance.
Fines, imprisonments, and other sentences, out of all
proportion to the offence committed, were heaped on every
redcoat in much the same way as was then being practised
in Boston and other hotbeds of disaffection. The redcoats
had done their work in ridding America of the old French
menace. They were doing it now in ridding the colonies
of the last serious menace from the Indians. And so the
colonists, having no further use for them, began tryin
g
to make the land they had delivered too hot to hold them.
There were, of course, exceptions; and the American
colonists had some real as well as pretended grievances.
But wantonly baiting the redcoats had already become a
most discreditable general practice.

Montreal was most in touch with the disaffected people
to the south. It also had a magistrate of the name of
Walker, the most rancorous of all the disaffected
magistrates in Canada. This Walker, well mated with an
equally rancorous wife, was the same man who entertained
Benjamin Franklin and the other commissioners sent by
Congress into Canada in 1776, the year in which both the
American Republic and a truly British Canada were born.
He would not have been flattered could he have seen the
entry Franklin made about him and his wife in a diary
which is still extant. The gist of it was that wherever
the Walkers might be they would soon set the place by
the ears. Walker, of course, was foremost in the persecution
of the redcoats; and he eagerly seized his opportunity
when an officer was billeted in a house where a brother
magistrate happened to be living as a lodger. Under such
circumstances the magistrate could not claim exemption.
But this made no difference either to him or to Walker.
Captain Payne, the gentleman whose presence enraged these
boors, was seized and thrown into gaol. The chief justice
granted a writ of habeas corpus. But the mischief was
done and resentment waxed high. The French-Canadian
seigneurs sympathized with Payne, which added fuel to
the magisterial flame; and Murray, scenting danger,
summoned the whole bench down to Quebec.

But before this bench of bumbles started some masked men
seized Walker in his own house and gave him a good sound
thrashing. Unfortunately they spoilt the fair reprisal
by cutting off his ear. That very night the news had run
round Montreal and made a start for Boston and Quebec.
Feeling ran high; and higher still when, a few weeks
later, the civil magistrates vented their rage on several
redcoats by imposing sent
ences exceeding even the utmost
limits of their previous vindictive action. Montreal
became panic-stricken lest the soldiers, baited past
endurance, should break out in open violence. Murray
drove up, post-haste, from Quebec, ordered the affected
regiment to another station, reproved the offending
magistrates, and re-established public confidence. Official
and private rewards were offered to any witnesses who
would identify Walker's assailants. But in vain. The
smouldering fire burst out again under Carleton. But the
mystery was never cleared up.

Things had now come to a crisis. The London merchants,
knowing nothing about the internal affairs of Canada,
backed the petition of the Quebec traders, who were quite
unworthy of such support from men of real business probity
and knowledge. The magisterial faction in Canada advertised
their side of the case all over the colonies and in any
sympathetic quarter they could find in England. The
seigneurs sent home a warm defence of Murray; and Murray
himself sent Cramahe, a very able Swiss officer in the
British Army. The home government thus had plenty of
contradictory evidence before it in 1765. The result was
that Murray was called home in 1766, rather in a spirit
of open-minded and sympathetic inquiry into his conduct
than with any idea of censuring him. He never returned
to Canada. But as he held the titular governorship for
some time longer, and as he was afterwards employed in
positions of great responsibility and trust, the verdict
of the home authorities was clearly given in his favour.

The troublous year of 1764 saw another innovation almost
as revolutionary, compared with the old regime, as the
introduction of civil government itself. This was the
issue of the first newspaper in Canada, where, indeed,
it was also the first printed thing of any kind. Nova
Scotia had produced an earlier paper, the _Halifax
Gazette_, which lived an intermittent life from 1752 to
1800. But no press had ever been allowed in New France.
The few documents that required printing had alw
ays been
done in the mother country. Brown and Gilmore, two
Philadelphians, were thus undertaking a pioneer business
when they announced that 'Our Design is, in case we are
fortunate enough to succeed, early in this spring to
settle in this City [Quebec] in the capacity of Printers,
and forthwith to publish a weekly newspaper in French
and English.' The _Quebec Gazette_, which first appeared
on the 21st of the following June, has continued to the
present time, though it is now a daily and is known as
the _Quebec Chronicle_. Centenarian papers are not common
in any country; and those that have lived over a century
and a half are very few indeed. So the _Quebec Chronicle_,
which is the second surviving senior in America, is also
among the great press seniors of the world.

The original number is one of the curiosities of journalism.
The publishers felt tolerably sure of having what was
then considered a good deal of recent news for their
three hundred readers during the open season. But, knowing
that the supply would be both short and stale in winter,
they held out prospects of a Canadian _Tatler_ or _Spectator_,
without, however, being rash enough to promise a supply
of Addisons and Steeles. Their announcement makes curious
reading at the present day.

 The Rigour of Winter preventing the arrival of ships
 from _Europe_, and in a great measure interrupting
 the ordinary intercourse with the Southern Provinces,
 it will be necessary, in a paper designed for General
 Perusal, and Publick Utility, to provide some things
 of general Entertainment, independent of foreign
 intelligence: we shall therefore, on such occasions,
 present our Readers with such _Originals_, both in
 _Prose_ and _Verse_, as will please the FANCY and
 instruct the JUDGMENT. And here we beg leave to observe
 that we shall have nothing so much at heart as the
 support of VIRTUE and MORALITY and the noble cause of
 LIBERTY. The refined amusements of LITERATURE, and
 the pleasing veins of well pointed wit, shall also be
 considered as necessary to 
this collection; interspersed
 with chosen pieces, and curious essays, extracted from
 the most celebrated authors; So that, blending PHILOSOPHY
 with POLITICKS, HISTORY, &c., the youth of both sexes
 will be improved and persons of all ranks agreeably
 and usefully entertained. And upon the whole we will
 labour to attain to all the exactness that so much
 variety will permit, and give as much variety as will
 consist with a reasonable exactness. And as this part
 of our project cannot be carried into execution without
 the correspondence of the INGENIOUS, we shall take
 all opportunities of acknowledging our obligations,
 to those who take the trouble of furnishing any matter
 which shall tend to entertainment or instruction. Our
 Intentions to please the _Whole_, without offence to
 any _Individual_, will be better evinced by our practice,
 than by writing volumes on the subject. This one thing
 we beg may be believed, that PARTY PREJUDICE, or
 PRIVATE SCANDAL, will never find a place in this PAPER.

GOVERNOR CARLETON
1766-1774

The twelve years of Carleton's first administration
naturally fall into three distinct periods of equal
length. During the first he was busily employed settling
as many difficulties as he could, examining the general
state of the country, and gradually growing into the
change that was developing in the minds of the home
government, the change, that is, from the Americanizing
sixties to the French-Canadian seventies. During the
second period he was in England, helping to shape the
famous Quebec Act. During the third he was defending
Canada from American attack and aiding the British
counterstroke by every means in his power.

On the 22nd of September 1766 Carleton arrived at Quebec
and began his thirty years' experience as a Canadian
administrator by taking over the government from Colonel
Irving, who had held it since Murray's departure in the
spring. Irving had succeeded Murray simply because he
happened to be the senior officer present at the time.
Carleton himself was technically Mu
rray's lieutenant till
1768. But neither of these facts really affected the
course of Canadian history.

The Council, the magistrates, and the traders each
presented. the new governor with an address containing
the usual professions of loyal devotion. Carleton remarked
in his dispatch that these separate addresses, and the
marked absence of any united address, showed how much
the population was divided. He also noted that a good
many of the English-speaking minority had objected to
the addresses on account of their own opposition to the
Stamp Act, and that there had been some broken heads in
consequence. Troubles enough soon engaged his anxious
attention--troubles over the Indian trade, the rights
and wrongs of the Canadian Jesuits, the wounded dignity
of some members of the Council, and the still smouldering
and ever mysterious Walker affair.

The strife between Canada and the Thirteen Colonies over
the Indian trade of the West remained the same in principle
as under the old regime. The Conquest had merely changed
the old rivalry between two foreign powers into one
between two widely differing British possessions; and
this, because of the general unrest among the Americans,
made the competition more bitter, if possible, than ever.

The Jesuits pressed their claims for recognition, for
their original estates, and for compensation. But their
order had fallen on evil days all over the world. It was
not popular even in Canada. And the arrangement was that
while the existing members were to be treated with every
consideration the Society itself was to be allowed to
die out.

The offended councillors went so far as to present Carleton
with a remonstrance which Irving himself had the misfortune
to sign. Carleton had consulted some members on points
with which they were specially acquainted. The members
who had not been consulted thereupon protested to Irving,
who assured them that Carleton must have done so by
accident, not design. But when Carleton received a joint
letter in which they said, 'As you are pleased to sig
nifye
to Us by Coll. Irving that it was accident, & not
Intention,' he at once replied: 'As Lieutenant Colonel
Irving has signified to you that the Part of my Conduct
you think worthy of your Reprehension happened by Accident
let him explain his reasons for so doing. He had no
authority from me.' Carleton then went on to say that he
would consult any 'Men of Good Sense, Truth, Candour,
and Impartial Justice' whenever he chose, no matter
whether they were councillors or not.

The Walker affair, which now broke out again, was much
more serious than the storm in the Council's teacup. It
agitated the whole of Canada and threatened to range the
population of Montreal and Quebec into two irreconcilable
factions, the civil and the military. For the whole of
the two years since Murray had been called upon to deal
with it cleverly presented versions of Walker's views
had been spread all over the colonies and worked into
influential Opposition circles in England. The invectives
against the redcoats and their friends the seigneurs were
of the usual abusive type. But they had an unusually
powerful effect at that particular time in the Thirteen
Colonies as well as in what their authors hoped to make
a Fourteenth Colony after a fashion of their own; and
they looked plausible enough to mislead a good many
moderate men in the mother country too. Walker's case
was that he had an actual witness, as to the identity of
his assailants, in the person of McGovoch, a discharged
soldier, who laid information against one civilian, three
British officers, and the celebrated French-Canadian
leader, La Corne de St Luc. All the accused were arrested
in their beds in Montreal and thrown into the common
gaol. Walker objected to bail on the plea that his life
would be in danger if they were allowed at large. He also
sought to postpone the trial in order to punish the
accused as much as possible, guilty or innocent. But
William Hey, the chief justice, an able and upright man,
would consent to postponement only on condition that bail
should be all
owed; so the trial proceeded. When the grand
jury threw out the case against one of the prisoners
Walker let loose such a flood of virulent abuse that
moderate men were turned against him. In the end all the
accused were honourably acquitted, while McGovoch, who
was proved to have been a false witness from the first,
was convicted of perjury. Carleton remained absolutely
impartial all through, and even dismissed Colonel Irving
and another member of the Council for heading a petition
on behalf of the military prisoners.

The Walker affair was an instance of a bad case in which
the law at last worked well. But there were many others
in which it did not. What with the _Coutume de Paris_,
which is still quoted in the province of Quebec; the
other complexities of the old French law; the doubtful
meanings drawn from the capitulation, the treaty, the
proclamation, and the various ordinances; the instinctive
opposition between the French Canadians and the
English-speaking civilians; and, finally, what with the
portents of subversive change that were already beginning
to overshadow all America,--what with all this and more,
Carleton found himself faced with a problem which no man
could have solved to the satisfaction of every one
concerned. Each side in a lawsuit took whatever amalgam
of French and English codes was best for its own argument.
But, generally speaking, the ingrained feeling of the
French Canadians was against any change of their own laws
that was not visibly and immediately beneficial to their
own particular interests. Moreover, the use of the unknown
English language, the worthlessness of the rapacious
English-speaking magistrates, and the detested innovation
of imprisonment for debt, all combined to make every part
of English civil law hated simply because it happened to
be English and not French. The home authorities were
anxious to find some workable compromise. In 1767 Carleton
exchanged several important dispatches with them; and in
1768 they sent out Maurice Morgan to study and report,
after consulta
tion with the chief justice and 'other well
instructed persons.' Morgan was an indefatigable and
clear-sighted man who deserves to be gratefully remembered
by both races; for he was a good friend both to the French
Canadians before the Quebec Act and to the United Empire
Loyalists just before their great migration, when he was
Carleton's secretary at New York. In 1769 the official
correspondence entered the 'secret and confidential'
stage with a dispatch from the home government to Carleton
suggesting a House of Representatives to which, practically
speaking, the towns would send Protestant members and
the country districts Roman Catholics.

In 1770 Carleton sailed for England. He carried a good
deal of hard-won experience with him, both on this point
and on many others. He went home with a strong opinion
not only against an assembly but against any immediate
attempts at Anglicization in any form. The royal
instructions that had accompanied his commission as
'Captain-General and Governor-in-chief' in 1768 contained
directions for establishing the Church of England with a
view to converting the whole population to its tenets later
on. But no steps had been taken, and, needless to say, the
French Canadians remained as Roman Catholic as ever.

An increasingly important question, soon to overshadow
all others, was defence. In April 1768 Carleton had
proposed the restoration of the seigneurial militia
system. 'All the Lands here are held of His Majesty's
Castle of St Lewis [the governor's official residence in
Quebec]. The Oath which the Vassals [seigneurs] take is
very Solemn and Binding. They are obliged to appear in
Arms for the King's defence, in case his Province is
attacked.' Carleton pointed out that a hundred men of
the Canadian seigneurial families were being kept on full
pay in France, ready to return and raise the Canadians
at the first opportunity. 'On the other hand, there are
only about seventy of these officers in Canada who have
been in the French service. Not one of them has been
given a commission in
 the King's [George's] Service, nor
is there One who, from any motive whatever, is induced
to support His Government.' The few French Canadians
raised for Pontiac's war had of course been properly paid
during the continuance of their active service. But they
had been disbanded like mere militia afterwards, without
either gratuities or half-pay for the officers. This
naturally made the class from which officers were drawn
think that no career was open to them under the Union
Jack and turned their thoughts towards France, where
their fellows were enjoying full pay without a break.

What made this the more serious was the weakness of the
regular garrisons, all of which, put together, numbered
only 1,627 men. Carleton calculated that about five
hundred of 'the King's Old Subjects' were capable of
bearing arms; though most of them were better at talking
than fighting. He had nothing but contempt for 'the flimsy
wall round Montreal,' and relied little more on the very
defective works at Quebec. Thus with all his wonderful
equanimity, 'grave Carleton' left Canada with no light
heart when he took six months' leave of absence in 1770;
and he would have been more anxious still if he could
have foreseen that his absence was to be prolonged to no
less than four years.

He had, however, two great satisfactions. He was
represented at Quebec by a most steadfast lieutenant,
the quiet, alert, discreet, and determined Cramahe; and
he was leaving Canada after having given proof of a
disinterestedness which was worthy of the elder Pitt
himself. When Pitt became Paymaster-General of England
he at once declined to use the two chief perquisites of
his office, the interest on the government balance and
the half per cent commission on foreign subsidies, though
both were regarded as a kind of indirect salary. When
Carleton became governor of Canada he at once issued a
proclamation abolishing all the fees and perquisites
attached to his position and explained his action to the
home authorities in the following words: 'There is a
certain ap
pearance of dirt, a sort of meanness, in exacting
fees on every occasion. I think it necessary for the
King's service that his representative should be thought
unsullied.' Murray, who had accepted the fees, at first
took umbrage. But Carleton soon put matters straight with
him. The fact was that fees, and even certain perquisites,
were no dishonour to receive, as they nearly always formed
a recognized part, and often the whole, of a perfectly
legal salary. But fees and perquisites could be abused;
and they did lead to misunderstandings, even when they
were not abused; while fixed salaries were free from both
objections. So Carleton, surrounded by shamelessly
rapacious magistrates and the whole vile camp-following
gang, as well as by French Canadians who had suffered
from the robberies of Bigot and his like, decided to
sacrifice everything but his indispensable fixed salary
in order that even the most malicious critics could not
bring any accusation, however false, against the man who
represented Britain and her king.

An interesting personal interlude, which was not without
considerable effect on Canadian history, took place in
the middle of Carleton's four years' stay in England. He
was forty-eight and still a bachelor. Tradition whispers
that these long years of single life were the result of
a disappointing love affair with Jane Carleton, a pretty
cousin, when both he and she were young. However that
may be, he now proposed to Lady Anne Howard, whose father,
the Earl of Effingham, was one of his greatest friends.
But he was doomed to a second, though doubtless very
minor, disappointment. Lady Anne, who probably looked on
'grave Carleton' as a sort of amiable, middle-aged uncle,
had fallen in love with his nephew, whom she presently
married, and with whom she afterwards went out to Canada,
where her husband served under the rejected uncle himself.
What added spice to this peculiar situation was the fact
that Carleton actually married the younger sister of the
too-youthful Lady Anne. When Lady Anne rejoined her 
sister
and their bosom friend, Miss Seymour, after the
disconcerting interview with Carleton, she explained her
tears by saying they were due to her having been 'obliged
to refuse the best man on earth.' 'The more fool you!'
answered the younger sister, Lady Maria, then just
eighteen, 'I only wish he had given me the chance!' There,
for the time, the matter ended. Carleton went back to
his official duties in furtherance of the Quebec Act.
His nephew and the elder sister made mutual love. Lady
Maria held her tongue. But Miss Seymour had not forgotten;
and one day she mustered up courage to tell Carleton the
story of 'the more fool you!' This decided him to act at
once. He proposed; was accepted; and lived happily married
for the rest of his long life. Lady Maria was small,
fair-haired, and blue-eyed, which heightened her girlish
appearance when, like Madame de Champlain, she came out
to Canada with a husband more than old enough to be her
father. But she had been brought up at Versailles. She
knew all the aristocratic graces of the old regime. And
her slight, upright figure--erect as any soldier's to
her dying day--almost matched her husband's stalwart form
in dignity of carriage.

The Quebec Act of 1774--the Magna Charta of the
French-Canadian race--finally passed the House of Lords
on the 18th of June. The general idea of the Act was to
reverse the unsuccessful policy of ultimate assimilation
with the other American colonies by making Canada a
distinctly French-Canadian province. The Maritime Provinces,
with a population of some thirty thousand, were to be as
English as they chose. But a greatly enlarged Quebec,
with a population of ninety thousand, and stretching far
into the unsettled West, was to remain equally
French-Canadian; though the rights of what it was then
thought would be a perpetual English-speaking minority
were to be safeguarded in every reasonable way. The whole
country between the American colonies and the domains of
the Hudson's Bay Company was included in this new Quebec,
which comprised the 
southern half of what is now the
Newfoundland Labrador, practically the whole of the modern
provinces of Quebec and Ontario, and all the western
lands between the Ohio and the Great Lakes as far as the
Mississippi, that is, the modern American states of Ohio,
Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin.

The Act gave Canada the English criminal code. It recognized
most of the French civil law, including the seigneurial
tenure of land. Roman Catholics were given 'the free
Exercise' of their religion, 'subject to the King's
Supremacy' as defined 'by an Act made in the First Year
of Queen Elizabeth,' which Act, with a magnificently
prophetic outlook on the future British Empire, was to
apply to 'all the Dominions and Countries which then did,
or thereafter should, belong to the Imperial Crown.' The
Roman Catholic clergy were authorized to collect 'their
accustomed Dues and Rights' from members of their own
communion. The new oath of allegiance to the Crown was
silent about differences of religion, so that Roman
Catholics might take it without question. The clergy and
seigneurs were thus restored to an acknowledged leadership
in church and state. Those who wanted a parliament were
distinctly told that 'It is at present inexpedient to
call an Assembly,' and that a Council of from seventeen
to twenty-three members, all appointed by the Crown,
would attend to local government and have power to levy
taxes for roads and public buildings only. Lands held
'in free and common socage' were to be dealt with by the
laws of England, as was all property which could be freely
willed away. A possible establishment of the Church of
England was provided for but never put in operation.

In some ways the Act did, in other ways it did not, fulfil
the objects of its framers. It was undoubtedly a generous
concession to the leading French Canadians. It did help
to keep Canada both British and Canadian. And it did open
the way for what ought to have been a crushing attack on
the American revolutionary forces. But it was not, and
neither it n
or any other Act could possibly have been,
at that late hour, completely successful. It conciliated
the seigneurs and the parochial clergy. But it did not,
and it could not, also conciliate the lesser townsfolk
and the habitants. For the last fourteen years the
habitants had been gradually drifting away from their
former habits of obedience and former obligations towards
their leaders in church and state. The leaders had lost
their old followers. The followers had found no new
leaders of their own.

Naturally enough, there was great satisfaction among the
seigneurs and the clergy, with a general feeling among
government supporters, both in England and Canada, that
the best solution of a very refractory problem had been
found at last. On the other hand, the Opposition in
England, nearly every one in the American colonies, and
the great majority of English-speaking people in
Newfoundland, the Maritime Provinces, and Canada itself
were dead against the Act; while the habitants, resenting
the privileges already reaffirmed in favour of the
seigneurs and clergy, and suspicious of further changes
in the same unwelcome direction, were neutral at the best
and hostile at the worst.

The American colonists would have been angered in any
case. But when they saw Canada proper made as unlike a
'fourteenth colony' as could be, and when they also saw
the gates of the coveted western lands closed against
them by the same detested Act--the last of the 'five
intolerable acts' to which they most objected--their fury
knew no bounds. They cursed the king, the pope, and the
French Canadians with as much violence as any temporal
or spiritual rulers had ever cursed heretics and rebels.
The 'infamous and tyrannical ministry' in England was
accused of 'contemptible subservience' to the 'bloodthirsty,
idolatrous, and hypocritical creed' of the French Canadians.
To think that people whose religion had spread 'murder,
persecution, and revolt throughout the world' were to be
entrenched along the St Lawrence was bad enough. But to
see Crown pro
tection given to the Indian lands which the
Americans considered their own western 'birthright' was
infinitely worse. Was the king of England to steal the
valley of the Mississippi in the same way as the king of
France?

It is easy to be wise after the event and hard to follow
any counsel of perfection. But it must always be a subject
of keen, if unavailing, regret that the French Canadians
were not guaranteed their own way of life, within the
limits of the modern province of Quebec, immediately
after the capitulation of Montreal in 1760. They would
then have entered the British Empire, as a whole people,
on terms which they must all have understood to be
exceedingly generous from any conquering power, and which
they would have soon found out to be far better than
anything they had experienced under the government of
France. In return for such unexampled generosity they
might have become convinced defenders of the only flag
in the world under which they could possibly live as
French Canadians. Their relations to each other, to the
rest of a changing Canada, and to the Empire would have
followed the natural course of political evolution, with
the burning questions of language, laws, and religion
safely removed from general controversy in after years.
The rights of the English-speaking minority could, of
course, have been still better safeguarded under this
system than under the distracting series of half-measures
which took its place. There should have been no question
of a parliament in the immediate future. Then, with the
peopling of Ontario by the United Empire Loyalists and
the growth of the Maritime Provinces on the other side,
Quebec could have entered Carleton's proposed Confederation
in the nineties to her own and every one else's best
advantage.

On the other hand, the delay of fourteen years after the
Capitulation of 1760 and the unwarrantable extension of
the provincial boundaries were cardinal errors of the
most disastrous kind. The delay, filled with a futile
attempt at mistaken Americanization, bred 
doubts and
dissensions not only between the two races but between
the different kinds of French Canadians. When the hour
of trial came disintegration had already gone too far.
The mistake about the boundaries was equally bad. The
western wilds ought to have been administered by a
lieutenant-governor under the supervision of a
governor-general. Even leasing them for a short term of
years to the Hudson's Bay Company would have been better
than annexing them to a preposterous province of Quebec.
The American colonists would have doubtless objected to
either alternative. But both could have been defended on
sound principles of administration; while the sudden
invasion of a new and inflated Quebec into the colonial
hinterlands was little less than a declaration of war.
The whole problem bristled with enormous difficulties,
and the circumstances under which it had to be faced made
an ideal solution impossible. But an earlier Quebec Act,
without its outrageous boundary clause, would have been
well worth the risk of passing; for the delay led many
French Canadians to suppose, however falsely, that the
Empire's need might always be their opportunity; and this
idea, however repugnant to their best minds and better
feelings, has persisted among their extreme particularists
until the present day.

CHAPTER IV

INVASION
1775

Carleton's first eight years as governor of Canada were
almost entirely occupied with civil administration. The
next four were equally occupied with war; so much so,
indeed, that the Quebec Act could not be put in force on
the 1st of May 1775, as provided for in the Act itself,
but only bit by bit much later on. There was one short
session of the new Legislative Council, which opened on
the 17th of August. But all men's minds were even then
turned towards the Montreal frontier, whence the American
invasion threatened to overspread the whole country and
make this opening session the last that might ever be
held. Most of the members were soon called away from the
council-chamber to the field. No further ses
sion could
be held either that year or the next; and Carleton was
obliged to nominate the judges himself. The fifteen years
of peace were over, and Canada had once more become an
object of contention between two fiercely hostile forces.

The War of the American Revolution was a long and
exceedingly complicated struggle; and its many varied
fortunes naturally had a profound effect on those of
Canada. But Canada was directly engaged in no more than
the first three campaigns, when the Americans invaded
her in 1775 and '76, and when the British used her as
the base from which to invade the new American Republic
in 1777. These first three campaigns formed a purely
civil war within the British Empire. On each side stood
three parties. Opponents were ranged against each other
in the mother country, in the Thirteen Colonies, and in
Canada. In the mother country the king and his party
government were ranged against the Opposition and all
who held radical or revolutionary views. Here the strife
was merely political. But in the Thirteen Colonies the
forces of the Crown were ranged against the forces of
the new Continental Congress. The small minority of
colonists who were afterwards known as the United Empire
Loyalists sided with the Crown. A majority sided with
the Congress. The rest kept as selfishly neutral as they
could. Among the English-speaking civilians in Canada,
many of whom were now of a much better class than the
original camp-followers, the active loyalists comprised
only the smaller half. The larger half sided with the
Americans, as was only natural, seeing that most of them
were immigrants from the Thirteen Colonies. But by no
means all these sympathizers were ready for a fight.
Among the French Canadians the loyalists included very
few besides the seigneurs, the clergy, and a handful of
educated people in Montreal, Three Rivers, and Quebec.
The mass of the habitants were more or less neutral. But
many of them were anti-British at first, while most of
them were anti-American afterwards.

Events moved quickly 
in 1775. On the 19th of April the
'shot heard round the world' was fired at Lexington in
Massachusetts. On the 1st of May, the day appointed for
the inauguration of the Quebec Act, the statue of the
king in Montreal was grossly defaced and hung with a
cross, a necklace of potatoes, and a placard bearing the
inscription, _Here's the Canadian Pope and English
Fool--Voila le Pape du Canada et le sot Anglais_. Large
rewards were offered for the detection of the culprits;
but without avail. Excitement ran high and many an argument
ended with a bloody nose.

Meanwhile three Americans were plotting an attack along
the old line of Lake Champlain. Two of them were outlaws
from the colony of New York, which was then disputing
with the neighbouring colony of New Hampshire the possession
of the lawless region in which all three had taken refuge
and which afterwards became Vermont. Ethan Allen, the
gigantic leader of the wild Green Mountain Boys, had a
price on his head. Seth Warner, his assistant, was an
outlaw of a somewhat humbler kind. Benedict Arnold, the
third invader, came from Connecticut. He was a horse-dealer
carrying on business with Quebec and Montreal as well as
the West Indies. He was just thirty-four; an excellent
rider, a dead shot, a very fair sailor, and captain of
a crack militia company. Immediately after the affair at
Lexington he had turned out his company, reinforced by
undergraduates from Yale, had seized the New Haven powder
magazine and marched over to Cambridge, where the
Massachusetts Committeemen took such a fancy to him that
they made him a colonel on the spot, with full authority
to raise men for an immediate attack on Ticonderoga. The
opportunity seemed too good to be lost; though the
Continental Congress was not then in favour of attacking
Canada, as its members hoped to see the Canadians throw
off the yoke of empire on their own account. The British
posts on Lake Champlain were absurdly undermanned.
Ticonderoga contained two hundred cannon, but only forty
men, none of whom expected an attack.
 Crown Point had
only a sergeant and a dozen men to watch its hundred and
thirteen pieces. Fort George, at the head of Lake George,
was no better off; and nothing more had been done to man
the fortifications at St Johns on the Richelieu, where
there was an excellent sloop as well as many cannon in
charge of the usual sergeant's guard. This want of
preparation was no fault of Carleton's. He had frequently
reported home on the need of more men. Now he had less
than a thousand regulars to defend the whole country:
and not another man was to arrive till the spring of next
year. When Gage was hard pressed for reinforcements at
Boston in the autumn of 1774 Carleton had immediately
sent him two excellent battalions that could ill be spared
from Canada. But when Carleton himself made a similar
request, in the autumn of 1775, Admiral Graves, to his
lasting dishonour, refused to sail up to Quebec so late
as October.

The first moves of the three Americans smacked strongly
of a well-staged extravaganza in which the smart Yankees
never failed to score off the dunderheaded British. The
Green Mountain Boys assembled on the east side of the
lake. Spies walked in and out of Ticonderoga, exactly
opposite, and reported to Ethan Allen that the commandant
and his whole garrison of forty unsuspecting men would
make an easy prey. Allen then sent eighty men down to
Skenesborough (now Whitehall) at the southern end of the
lake, to take the tiny post there and bring back boats
for the crossing on the 10th of May. Then Arnold turned
up with his colonel's commission, but without the four
hundred men it authorized him to raise. Allen, however,
had made himself a colonel too, with Warner as his
second-in-command. So there were no less than three
colonels for two hundred and thirty men. Arnold claimed
the command by virtue of his Massachusetts commission.
But the Green Mountain Boys declared they would follow
no colonels but their own; and so Arnold, after being
threatened with arrest, was appointed something like
chief of the staff, on the u
nderstanding that he would
make himself generally useful with the boats. This
appointment was made at dawn on the 10th of May, just as
the first eighty men were advancing to the attack after
crossing over under cover of night. The British sentry's
musket missed fire; whereupon he and the guard were
rushed, while the rest of the garrison were surprised in
their beds. Ethan Allen, who knew the fort thoroughly,
hammered on the commandant's door and summoned him to
surrender 'In the name of the Great Jehovah and the
Continental Congress!' The astonished commandant, seeing
that resistance was impossible, put on his dressing-gown
and paraded his disarmed garrison as prisoners of war.
Seth Warner presently arrived with the rest of Allen's
men and soon became the hero of Crown Point, which he
took with the whole of its thirteen men and a hundred
and thirteen cannon. Then Arnold had his own turn, in
command of an expedition against the sergeant's guard,
cannon, stores, fort, and sloop at St Johns on the
Richelieu, all of which he captured in the same absurdly
simple way. When he came sailing back the three victorious
commanders paraded all their men and fired off many
straggling fusillades of joy. In the meantime the
Continental Congress at Philadelphia, with a delightful
touch of unconscious humour, was gravely debating the
following resolution, which was passed on the 1st of
June: _That no Expedition or Incursion ought to be
undertaken or made, by any Colony or body of Colonists,
against or into Canada_.

The same Congress, however, found reasons enough for
changing its mind before the month of May was out. The
British forces in Canada had already begun to move towards
the threatened frontier. They had occupied and strengthened
St Johns. And the Americans were beginning to fear lest
the command of Lake Champlain might again fall into
British hands. On the 27th of May the Congress closed
the phase of individual raids and inaugurated the phase
of regular invasion by commissioning General Schuyler to
'pursue any measures i
n Canada that may have a tendency
to promote the peace and security of these Colonies.'
Philip Schuyler was a distinguished member of the family
whose head had formulated the 'Glorious Enterprize' of
conquering New France in 1689. [Footnote: See, in this
Series, _The Fighting Governor_.] So it was quite in line
with the family tradition for him to be under orders to
'take possession of St Johns, Montreal, and any other
parts of the country,' provided always, adds the cautious
Congress, that 'General Schuyler finds it practicable,
and that it will not be disagreeable to the Canadians.'

A few days later Arnold was trying to get a colonelcy
from the Convention of New York, whose members just then
happened to be thinking of giving commissions to his
rivals, the leaders of the Green Mountain Boys, while,
to make the complication quite complete, these Boys
themselves had every intention of electing officers on
their own account. In the meantime Connecticut, determined
not to be forestalled by either friend or foe, ordered
a thousand men to Ticonderoga and commissioned a general
called Wooster to command them. Thus early were sown the
seeds of those dissensions between Congress troops and
Colony troops which nearly drove Washington mad.

Schuyler reached Ticonderoga in mid-July and assumed his
position as Congressional commander-in-chief. Unfortunately
for the good of the service he had only a few hundred
men with him; so Wooster, who had a thousand, thought
himself the bigger general of the two. The Connecticut
men followed Wooster's lead by jeering at Schuyler's men
from New York; while the Vermonters added to the confusion
by electing Seth Warner instead of Ethan Allen. In
mid-August a second Congressional general arrived, making
three generals and half a dozen colonels for less than
fifteen hundred troops. This third general was Richard
Montgomery, an ardent rebel of thirty-eight, who had been
a captain in the British Army. He had sold his commission,
bought an estate on the Hudson, and married a daughter
of the Li
vingstons. The Livingstons headed the
Anglo-American revolutionists in the colony of New York
as the Schuylers headed the Knickerbocker Dutch. One of
them was very active on the rebel side in Montreal and
was soon to take the field at the head of the American
'patriots' in Canada. Montgomery was brother to the
Captain Montgomery of the 43rd who was the only British
officer to disgrace himself during Wolfe's Quebec campaign,
which he did by murdering his French-Canadian prisoners
at Chateau Richer because they had fought disguised as
Indians. [Footnote: See _The Passing of New France_, p.
118.] Richard Montgomery was a much better man than his
savage brother; though, as the sequel proves, he was by
no means the perfect hero his American admirers would
have the world believe. His great value at Ticonderoga
was his professional knowledge and his ardour in the
cause he had espoused. His presence 'changed the spirit
of the camp.' It sadly needed change. 'Such a set of
pusillanimous wretches never were collected' is his own
description in a despairing letter to his wife. The
'army,' in fact, was all parts and no whole, and all the
parts were mere untrained militia. Moreover, the spirit
of the 'town meeting' ruled the camp. Even a battery
could not be moved without consulting a council of war.
Schuyler, though far more phlegmatic than Montgomery,
agreed with him heartily about this and many other
exasperating points. 'If Job had been a general in my
situation, his memory had not been so famous for patience.'

Worn out by his worries, Schuyler fell ill and was sent
to command the base at Albany. Montgomery then succeeded
to the command of the force destined for the front. The
plan of invasion approved by Washington was, first, to
sweep the line of the Richelieu by taking St Johns and
Chambly, then to take Montreal, next to secure the line
of the St Lawrence, and finally to besiege Quebec.
Montgomery's forces were to carry out all the preliminary
parts alone. But Arnold was to join him at Quebec after
advancing across cou
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Suzanne Shell, Josephine Paolucci
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

[Illustration: They walked, thus guided by an obsequious waiter, through a
light _confetti_ of tossed greetings.]

GASLIGHT SONATAS

BY

FANNIE HURST

1918

[Dedication: To my mother and my father]

CONTENTS

I. BITTER-SWEET

II. SIEVE OF FULFILMENT

III. ICE-WATER, PL--!

IV. HERS _NOT_ TO REASON WHY

V. GOLDEN FLEECE

VI. NIGHTSHADE

VII. GET READY THE WREATHS

GASLIGHT SONATAS

I

BITTER-SWEET

Much of the tragical lore of the infant mortality, the malnutrition, and
the five-in-a-room morality of the city's poor is written in statistics,
and the statistical path to the heart is more figurative than literal.

It is difficult to write stylistically a per-annum report of 1,327
curvatures of the spine, whereas the poor specific little vertebra of Mamie
O'Grady, daughter to Lou, your laundress, whose alcoholic husband once
invaded your very own basement and attempted to strangle her in the
coal-bin, can instantly create an apron bazaar in the church vestry-rooms.

That is why it is possible to drink your morning coffee without nausea for
it, over the head-lines of forty thousand casualties at Ypres, but to
push back abruptly at a three-line notice of little Tony's, your corner
bootblack's, fatal dive before a street-car.

Gertie Slayback was statistically down as a woman wage-earner; a typhoid
case among the thousands of the Borough of Manhattan for 1901; and her
twice-a-day share in the Subway fares collected in the present year of our
Lord.

She was a very atomic one of the city's four millions. But after all, what
are the kings and peasants, poets and draymen, but great, greater, or
greatest, less, lesser, or least atoms of us? If not of the least, Gertie
Slayback was of the very lesser. When she unlocked the front door to her
rooming-house of evenings, there was no one to expect her, except on
Tuesdays, which evening it so happened her week was up. And when she left
of mornings with her breakfast crumblessly cleared up and the box of

biscuit and condensed-milk can tucked unsuspectedly behind her camisole in
the top drawer there was no one to regret her.

There are some of us who call this freedom. Again there are those for whom
one spark of home fire burning would light the world.

Gertie Slayback was one of these. Half a life-time of opening her door upon
this or that desert-aisle of hall bedroom had not taught her heart how not
to sink or the feel of daily rising in one such room to seem less like a
damp bathing-suit, donned at dawn.

The only picture--or call it atavism if you will--which adorned Miss
Slayback's dun- walls was a passe-partout snowscape, night closing
in, and pink cottage windows peering out from under eaves. She could
visualize that interior as if she had only to turn the frame for the smell
of wood fire and the snap of pine logs and for the scene of two high-back
chairs and the wooden crib between.

What a fragile, gracile thing is the mind that can leap thus from nine
bargain basement hours of hairpins and darning-balls to the downy business
of lining a crib in Never-Never Land and warming No Man's slippers before
the fire of imagination.

There was that picture so acidly etched into Miss Slayback's brain that she
had only to close her eyes in the slit-like sanctity of her room and in the
brief moment of courting sleep feel the pink penumbra of her vision begin
to glow.

Of late years, or, more specifically, for two years and eight months,
another picture had invaded, even superseded the old. A stamp-photograph
likeness of Mr. James P. Batch in the corner of Miss Slayback's mirror,
and thereafter No Man's slippers became number eight-and-a-half C, and the
hearth a gilded radiator in a dining-living-room somewhere between the
Fourteenth Street Subway and the land of the Bronx.

How Miss Slayback, by habit not gregarious, met Mr. Batch is of no
consequence, except to those snug ones of us to whom an introduction is the
only means to such an end.

At a six o'clock that invaded even Union Square with heliotrope dusk, Mr.
Ja
mes Batch mistook, who shall say otherwise, Miss Gertie Slayback, as
she stepped down into the wintry shade of a Subway kiosk, for Miss
Whodoesitmatter. At seven o'clock, over a dish of lamb stew _a la_ White
Kitchen, he confessed, and if Miss Slayback affected too great surprise and
too little indignation, try to conceive six nine-hour week-in-and-week-out
days of hair-pins and darning-balls, and then, at a heliotrope dusk, James
P. Batch, in invitational mood, stepping in between it and the papered
walls of a dun- evening. To further enlist your tolerance, Gertie
Slayback's eyes were as blue as the noon of June, and James P. Batch, in a
belted-in coat and five kid finger-points protruding ever so slightly and
rightly from a breast pocket, was hewn and honed in the image of youth. His
the smile of one for whom life's cup holds a heady wine, a wrinkle or two
at the eye only serving to enhance that smile; a one-inch feather stuck
upright in his derby hatband.

It was a forelock once stamped a Corsican with the look of emperor. It was
this hat feather, a cock's feather at that and worn without sense of humor,
to which Miss Slayback was fond of attributing the consequences of that
heliotrope dusk.

"It was the feather in your cap did it, Jimmie. I can see you yet, stepping
up with that innocent grin of yours. You think I didn't know you were
flirting? Cousin from Long Island City! 'Say,' I says to myself, I says, 'I
look as much like his cousin from Long Island City, if he's got one, as my
cousin from Hoboken (and I haven't got any) would look like my sister if I
had one.' It was that sassy little feather in your hat!"

They would laugh over this ever-green reminiscence on Sunday Park benches
and at intermission at moving pictures when they remained through it to see
the show twice. Be the landlady's front parlor ever so permanently rented
out, the motion-picture theater has brought to thousands of young city
starvelings, if not the quietude of the home, then at least the warmth and
a juxtaposition and a deep darkne
ss that can lave the sub-basement throb of
temples and is filled with music with a hum in it.

For two years and eight months of Saturday nights, each one of them a
semaphore dropping out across the gray road of the week, Gertie Slayback
and Jimmie Batch dined for one hour and sixty cents at the White Kitchen.
Then arm and arm up the million-candle-power flare of Broadway, content,
these two who had never seen a lake reflect a moon, or a slim fir pointing
to a star, that life could be so manifold. And always, too, on Saturday,
the tenth from the last row of the De Luxe Cinematograph, Broadway's Best,
Orchestra Chairs, fifty cents; Last Ten Rows, thirty-five. The give of
velvet-upholstered chairs, perfumed darkness, and any old love story moving
across it to the ecstatic ache of Gertie Slayback's high young heart.

On a Saturday evening that was already pointed with stars at the
six-o'clock closing of Hoffheimer's Fourteenth Street Emporium, Miss
Slayback, whose blondness under fatigue could become ashy, emerged from the
Bargain-Basement almost the first of its frantic exodus, taking the place
of her weekly appointment in the entrance of the Popular Drug Store
adjoining, her gaze, something even frantic in it, sifting the passing
crowd.

At six o'clock Fourteenth Street pours up from its basements, down from its
lofts, and out from its five-and-ten-cent stores, shows, and arcades, in
a great homeward torrent--a sweeping torrent that flows full flush to the
Subway, the Elevated, and the surface car, and then spreads thinly into the
least pretentious of the city's homes--the five flights up, the two rooms
rear, and the third floor back.

Standing there, this eager tide of the Fourteenth Street Emporium, thus
released by the six-o'clock flood-gates, flowed past Miss Slayback.
White-nosed, low-chested girls in short-vamp shoes and no-carat gold
vanity-cases. Older men resigned that ambition could be flayed by a
yard-stick; young men still impatient of their clerkship.

It was into the trickle of these last that Miss S
layback bored her glance,
the darting, eager glance of hot eyeballs and inner trembling. She was
not so pathetically young as she was pathetically blond, a treacherous,
ready-to-fade kind of blondness that one day, now that she had found that
very morning her first gray hair, would leave her ashy.

Suddenly, with a small catch of breath that was audible in her throat, Miss
Slayback stepped out of that doorway, squirming her way across the tight
congestion of the sidewalk to its curb, then in and out, brushing this
elbow and that shoulder, worming her way in an absolutely supreme anxiety
to keep in view a brown derby hat bobbing right briskly along with the
crowd, a greenish-black bit of feather upright in its band.

At Broadway, Fourteenth Street cuts quite a caper, deploying out into Union
Square, an island of park, beginning to be succulent at the first false
feint of spring, rising as it were from a sea of asphalt. Across this park
Miss Slayback worked her rather frenzied way, breaking into a run when
the derby threatened to sink into the confusion of a hundred others, and
finally learning to keep its course by the faint but distinguishing fact of
a slight dent in the crown. At Broadway, some blocks before that highway
bursts into its famous flare, Mr. Batch, than whom it was no other, turned
off suddenly at right angles down into a dim pocket of side-street and into
the illuminated entrance of Ceiner's Cafe Hungarian. Meals at all hours.
Lunch, thirty cents. Dinner, fifty cents. Our Goulash is Famous.

New York, which expresses itself in more languages to the square block
than any other area in the world, Babylon included, loves thus to dine
linguistically, so to speak. To the Crescent Turkish Restaurant for its
Business Men's Lunch comes Fourth Avenue, whose antique-shop patois reads
across the page from right to left. Sight-seeing automobiles on mission and
commission bent allow Altoona, Iowa City, and Quincy, Illinois, fifteen
minutes' stop-in at Ching Ling-Foo's Chinatown Delmonico's. Spaghetti and
red wi
ne have set New York racing to reserve its table d'hotes. All except
the Latin race.

Jimmie Batch, who had first seen light, and that gaslight, in a block in
lower Manhattan which has since been given over to a milk-station for
a highly congested district, had the palate, if not the purse, of the
cosmopolite. His digestive range included _borsch_ and _chow maigne;
risotta_ and ham and.

To-night, as he turned into Cafe Hungarian, Miss Slayback slowed and drew
back into the overshadowing protection of an adjoining office-building. She
was breathing hard, and her little face, somehow smaller from chill, was
nevertheless a high pink at the cheek-bones.

The wind swept around the corner, jerking her hat, and her hand flew up to
it. There was a fair stream of passers-by even here, and occasionally
one turned for a backward glance at her standing there so frankly
indeterminate.

Suddenly Miss Slayback adjusted her tam-o'-shanter to its flop over her
right ear, and, drawing off a pair of dark-blue silk gloves from over
immaculately new white ones, entered Ceiner's Cafe Hungarian. In its light
she was not so obviously blonder than young, the pink spots in her
cheeks had a deepening value to the blue of her eyes, and a black velvet
tam-o'-shanter revealing just the right fringe of yellow curls is no mean
aid.

First of all, Ceiner's is an eating-place. There is no music except at five
cents in the slot, and its tables for four are perpetually set each with a
dish of sliced radishes, a bouquet of celery, and a mound of bread, half
the stack rye. Its menus are well thumbed and badly mimeographed. Who
enters Ceiner's is prepared to dine from barley soup to apple strudel. At
something after six begins the rising sound of cutlery, and already the
new-comer fears to find no table.

Off at the side, Mr. Jimmie Batch had already disposed of his hat and gray
overcoat, and tilting the chair opposite him to indicate its reservation,
shook open his evening paper, the waiter withholding the menu at this sign
of rendezvous.

Straight 
toward that table Miss Slayback worked quick, swift way, through
this and that aisle, jerking back and seating herself on the chair opposite
almost before Mr. Batch could raise his eyes from off the sporting page.

There was an instant of silence between them--the kind of silence that
can shape itself into a commentary upon the inefficacy of mere speech--a
widening silence which, as they sat there facing, deepened until, when she
finally spoke, it was as if her words were pebbles dropping down into a
well.

"Don't look so surprised, Jimmie," she said, propping her face calmly, even
boldly, into the white-kid palms. "You might fall off the Christmas tree."

Above the snug, four-inch collar and bow tie Mr. Batch's face was taking on
a dull ox-blood tinge that spread back, even reddening his ears. Mr. Batch
had the frontal bone of a clerk, the horn-rimmed glasses of the literarily
astigmatic, and the sartorial perfection that only the rich can afford not
to attain.

He was staring now quite frankly, and his mouth had fallen open. "Gert!" he
said.

"Yes," said Miss Slayback, her insouciance gaining with his discomposure,
her eyes widening and then a dolly kind of glassiness seeming to set in.
"You wasn't expecting me, Jimmie?"

He jerked up his head, not meeting her glance. "What's the idea of the
comedy?"

"You don't look glad to see me, Jimmie."

"If you--think you're funny."

She was working out of and then back into the freshly white gloves in a
betraying kind of nervousness that belied the toss of her voice. "Well, of
all things! Mad-cat! Mad, just because you didn't seem to be expecting me."

"I--There's some things that are just the limit, that's what they are.
Some things that are just the limit, that no fellow would stand from any
girl, and this--this is one of them."

Her lips were trembling now. "You--you bet your life there's some things
that are just the limit."

He slid out his watch, pushing back. "Well, I guess this place is too small
for a fellow and a girl that can follow him around town like a--lik
e--"

She sat forward, grasping the table-sides, her chair tilting with her.
"Don't you dare to get up and leave me sitting here! Jimmie Batch, don't
you dare!"

The waiter intervened, card extended.

"We--we're waiting for another party," said Miss Slayback, her hands still
rigidly over the table-sides and her glance like a steady drill into Mr.
Batch's own.

There was a second of this silence while the waiter withdrew, and then Mr.
Batch whipped out his watch again, a gun-metal one with an open face.

"Now look here. I got a date here in ten minutes, and one or the other of
us has got to clear. You--you're one too many, if you got to know it."

"Oh, I do know it, Jimmie! I been one too many for the last four Saturday
nights. I been one too many ever since May Scully came into five hundred
dollars' inheritance and quit the Ladies' Neckwear. I been one too many
ever since May Scully became a lady."

"If I was a girl and didn't have more shame!"

"Shame! Now you're shouting, Jimmie Batch. I haven't got shame, and I don't
care who knows it. A girl don't stop to have shame when she's fighting for
her rights."

He was leaning on his elbow, profile to her. "That movie talk can't scare
me. You can't tell me what to do and what not to do. I've given you a
square deal all right. There's not a word ever passed between us that ties
me to your apron-strings. I don't say I'm not without my obligations to
you, but that's not one of them. No, sirree--no apron-strings."

"I know it isn't, Jimmie. You're the kind of a fellow wouldn't even talk to
himself for fear of committing hisself."

"I got a date here now any minute, Gert, and the sooner you--"

"You're the guy who passed up the Sixty-first for the Safety First
regiment."

"I'll show you my regiment some day."

"I--I know you're not tied to my apron-strings, Jimmie. I--I wouldn't have
you there for anything. Don't you think I know you too well for that?
That's just it. Nobody on God's earth knows you the way I do. I know you
better than you know yourself."

"You better beat
 it, Gertie. I tell you I'm getting sore."

Her face flashed from him to the door and back again, her anxiety almost
edged with hysteria. "Come on, Jimmie--out the side entrance before she
gets here. May Scully ain't the company for you. You think if she was,
honey, I'd--I'd see myself come butting in between you this way, like--like
a--common girl? She's not the girl to keep you straight. Honest to God
she's not, honey."

"My business is my business, let me tell you that."

"She's speedy, Jimmie. She was the speediest girl on the main floor, and
now that she's come into those five hundred, instead of planting it for a
rainy day, she's quit work and gone plumb crazy with it."

"When I want advice about my friends I ask for it."

"It's not her good name that worries me, Jimmie, because she 'ain't got
any. It's you. She's got you crazy with that five hundred, too--that's
what's got me scared."

"Gee! you ought to let the Salvation Army tie a bonnet under your chin."

"She's always had her eyes on you, Jimmie. 'Ain't you men got no sense for
seein' things? Since the day they moved the Gents' Furnishings across from
the Ladies' Neckwear she's had you spotted. Her goings-on used to leak down
to the basement, alrighty. She's not a good girl, May ain't, Jimmie. She
ain't, and you know it. Is she? Is she?"

"Aw!" said Jimmie Batch.

"You see! See! 'Ain't got the nerve to answer, have you?"

"Aw--maybe I know, too, that she's not the kind of a girl that would turn
up where she's not--"

"If you wasn't a classy-looking kind of boy, Jimmie, that a fly girl like
May likes to be seen out with, she couldn't find you with magnifying
glasses, not if you was born with the golden rule in your mouth and had
swallowed it. She's not the kind of girl, Jimmie, a fellow like you needs
behind him. If--if you was ever to marry her and get your hands on them
five hundred dollars--"

"It would be my business."

"It'll be your ruination. You're not strong enough to stand up under
nothing like that. With a few hundred unearned dollars in your
 pocket
you--you'd go up in spontaneous combustion, you would."

"It would be my own spontaneous combustion."

"You got to be drove, Jimmie, like a kid. With them few dollars you
wouldn't start up a little cigar-store like you think you would. You and
her would blow yourselves to the dogs in two months. Cigar-stores ain't the
place for you, Jimmie. You seen how only clerking in them was nearly your
ruination--the little gambling-room-in-the-back kind that you pick out.
They ain't cigar-stores; they're only false faces for gambling."

"You know it all, don't you?"

"Oh, I'm dealing it to you straight! There's too many sporty crowds loafing
around those joints for a fellow like you to stand up under. I found you in
one, and as yellow-fingered and as loafing as they come, a new job a week,
a--"

"Yeh, and there was some pep to variety, too."

"Don't throw over, Jimmie, what my getting you out of it to a decent job in
a department store has begun to do for you. And you're making good, too.
Higgins told me to-day, if you don't let your head swell, there won't be a
fellow in the department can stack up his sales-book any higher."

"Aw!"

"Don't throw it all over, Jimmie--and me--for a crop of dyed red hair and a
few dollars to ruin yourself with."

He shot her a look of constantly growing nervousness, his mouth pulled to
an oblique, his glance constantly toward the door.

"Don't keep no date with her to-night, Jimmie. You haven't got the
constitution to stand her pace. It's telling on you. Look at those fingers
yellowing again--looka--"

"They're my fingers, ain't they?"

"You see, Jimmie, I--I'm the only person in the world that likes you just
for what--you ain't--and hasn't got any pipe dreams about you. That's what
counts, Jimmie, the folks that like you in spite, and not because of."

"We will now sing psalm number two hundred and twenty-three."

"I know there's not a better fellow in the world if he's kept nailed to the
right job, and I know, too, there's not another fellow can go to the dogs
any easier."

"To hea
r you talk, you'd think I was about six."

"I'm the only girl that'll ever be willing to make a whip out of herself
that'll keep you going and won't sting, honey. I know you're soft and lazy
and selfish and--"

"Don't forget any."

"And I know you're my good-looking good-for-nothing, and I know, too, that
you--you don't care as much--as much for me from head to toe as I do for
your little finger. But I--I like you just the same, Jimmie. That--that's
what I mean about having no shame. I--do like you so--so terribly, Jimmie."

"Aw now--Gert!"

"I know it, Jimmie--that I ought to be ashamed. Don't think I haven't cried
myself to sleep with it whole nights in succession."

"Aw now--Gert!"

"Don't think I don't know it, that I'm laying myself before you pretty
common. I know it's common for a girl to--to come to a fellow like this,
but--but I haven't got any shame about it--I haven't got anything, Jimmie,
except fight for--for what's eating me. And the way things are between us
now is eating me."

"I--Why, I got a mighty high regard for you, Gert."

"There's a time in a girl's life, Jimmie, when she's been starved like I
have for something of her own all her days; there's times, no matter how
she's held in, that all of a sudden comes a minute when she busts out."

"I understand, Gert, but--"

"For two years and eight months, Jimmie, life has got to be worth while
living to me because I could see the day, even if we--you--never talked
about it, when you would be made over from a flip kid to--to the kind of a
fellow would want to settle down to making a little--two-by-four home for
us. A--little two-by-four all our own, with you steady on the job and
advanced maybe to forty or fifty a week and--"

"For God's sake, Gertie, this ain't the time or the place to--"

"Oh yes, it is! It's got to be, because it's the first time in four weeks
that you didn't see me coming first."

"But not now, Gert. I--"

"I'm not ashamed to tell you, Jimmie Batch, that I've been the making of
you since that night you threw the wink at me. And-
-and it hurts, this
does. God! how it hurts!"

He was pleating the table-cloth, swallowing as if his throat had
constricted, and still rearing his head this way and that in the tight
collar.

"I--never claimed not to be a bad egg. This ain't the time and the place
for rehashing, that's all. Sure you been a friend to me. I don't say
you haven't. Only I can't be bossed by a girl like you. I don't say May
Scully's any better than she ought to be. Only that's my business. You
hear? my business. I got to have life and see a darn sight more future for
myself than selling shirts in a Fourteenth Street department store."

"May Scully can't give it to you--her and her fast crowd."

"Maybe she can and maybe she can't."

"Them few dollars won't make you; they'll break you."

"That's for her to decide, not you."

"I'll tell her myself. I'll face her right here and--"

"Now, look here, if you think I'm going to be let in for a holy show
between you two girls, you got another think coming. One of us has got to
clear out of here, and quick, too. You been talking about the side door;
there it is. In five minutes I got a date in this place that I thought I
could keep like any law-abiding citizen. One of us has got to clear, and
quick, too. God! you wimmin make me sick, the whole lot of you!"

"If anything makes you sick, I know what it is. It's dodging me to fly
around all hours of the night with May Scully, the girl who put the tang in
tango. It's eating around in swell sixty-cent restaurants like this and--"

"Gad! your middle name ought to be Nagalene."

"Aw, now, Jimmie, maybe it does sound like nagging, but it ain't, honey.
It--it's only my--my fear that I'm losing you, and--and my hate for the
every-day grind of things, and--"

"I can't help that, can I?"

"Why, there--there's nothing on God's earth I hate, Jimmie, like I hate
that Bargain-Basement. When I think it's down there in that manhole I've
spent the best years of my life, I--I wanna die. The day I get out of it,
the day I don't have to punch that old time-clock dow
n there next to the
Complaints and Adjustment Desk, I--I'll never put my foot below sidewalk
level again to the hour I die. Not even if it was to take a walk in my own
gold-mine."

"It ain't exactly a garden of roses down there."

"Why, I hate it so terrible, Jimmie, that sometimes I wake up nights
gritting my teeth with the smell of steam-pipes and the tramp of feet on
the glass sidewalk up over me. Oh. God! you dunno--you dunno!"

"When it comes to that the main floor ain't exactly a maiden's dream, or a
fellow's, for that matter."

"With a man it's different, It's his job in life, earning, and--and the
woman making the two ends of it meet. That's why, Jimmie, these last
two years and eight months, if not for what I was hoping for us,
why--why--I--why, on your twenty a week, Jimmie, there's nobody could run
a flat like I could. Why, the days wouldn't be long enough to putter in.
I--Don't throw away what I been building up for us, Jimmie, step by step!
Don't, Jimmie!"

"Good Lord, girl! You deserve better 'n me."

"I know I got a big job, Jimmie, but I want to make a man out of you,
temper, laziness, gambling, and all. You got it in you to be something more
than a tango lizard or a cigar-store bum, honey. It's only you 'ain't
got the stuff in you to stand up under a five-hundred-dollar windfall
and--a--and a sporty girl. If--if two glasses of beer make you as silly as
they do, Jimmie, why, five hundred dollars would land you under the table
for life."

"Aw-there you go again!"

"I can't help it, Jimmie. It's because I never knew a fellow had what's
he's cut out for written all over him so. You're a born clerk, Jimmie.

"Sure, I'm a slick clerk, but--"

"You're born to be a clerk, a good clerk, even a two-hundred-a-month clerk,
the way you can win the trade, but never your own boss. I know what I'm
talking about. I know your measure better than any human on earth can
ever know your measure. I know things about you that you don't even know
yourself."

"I never set myself up to nobody for anything I wasn't."

"Mayb
e not, Jimmie, but I know about you and--and that Central Street gang
that time, and--"

"You!"

"Yes, honey, and there's not another human living but me knows how little
it was your fault. Just bad company, that was all. That's how much I--I
love you, Jimmie, enough to understand that. Why, if I thought May Scully
and a set-up in business was the thing for you, Jimmie, I'd say to her, I'd
say, if it was like taking my own heart out in my hand and squashing it,
I'd say to her, I'd say, 'Take him, May.' That's how I--I love you, Jimmie.
Oh, ain't it nothing, honey, a girl can come here and lay herself this low
to you--"

"Well, haven't I just said you--you deserve better."

"I don't want better, Jimmie. I want you. I want to take hold of your life
and finish the job of making it the kind we can both be proud of. Us two,
Jimmie, in--in our own decent two-by-four. Shopping on Saturday nights.
Frying in our own frying-pan in our own kitchen. Listening to our own
phonograph in our own parlor. Geraniums and--and kids--and--and things.
Gas-logs. Stationary washtubs. Jimmie! Jimmie!"

Mr. James P. Batch reached up for his hat and overcoat, cramming the
newspaper into a rear pocket.

"Come on," he said, stalking toward the side door and not waiting to see
her to her feet.

Outside, a banner of stars was over the narrow street. For a chain of five
blocks he walked, with a silence and speed that Miss Slayback could only
match with a running quickstep. But she was not out of breath. Her head was
up, and her hand, where it hooked into Mr. Batch's elbow, was in a vise
that tightened with each block.

You who will mete out no other approval than that vouched for by the stamp
of time and whose contempt for the contemporary is from behind the easy
refuge of the classics, suffer you the shuddering analogy that between
Aspasia who inspired Pericles, Theodora who suggested the Justinian code,
and Gertie Slayback who commandeered Jimmie Batch, is a sistership which
rounds them, like a lasso thrown back into time, into one and the sam
e
petticoat dynasty behind the throne.

True, Gertie Slayback's _mise en scene_ was a two-room kitchenette
apartment situated in the Bronx at a surveyor's farthest point between two
Subway stations, and her present state one of frequent red-faced forays
down into a packing-case. But there was that in her eyes which witchingly
bespoke the conquered, but not the conqueror. Hers was actually the
titillating wonder of a bird which, captured, closes its wings, that
surrender can be so sweet.

Once she sat on the edge of the packing-case, dallying a hammer, then laid
it aside suddenly, to cross the littered room and place the side of her
head to the immaculate waistcoat of Mr. Jimmie Batch, red-faced, too, over
wrenching up with hatchet-edge a barrel-top.

"Jimmie darling, I--I just never will get over your finding this place for
us."

Mr. Batch wiped his forearm across his brow, his voice jerking between the
squeak of nails extracted from wood.

"It was you, honey. You give me the to-let ad, and I came to look, that's
all."

"Just the samey, it was my boy found it. If you hadn't come to look we
might have been forced into taking that old dark coop over on Simpson
Street."

"What's all this junk in this barrel?"

"Them's kitchen utensils, honey."

"Kitchen what?"

"Kitchen things that you don't know nothing about except to eat good things
out of."

"What's this?"

"Don't bend it! That's a celery-brush. Ain't it cute?"

"A celery-brush! Why didn't you get it a comb, too?"

"Aw, now, honey-bee, don't go trying to be funny and picking through these
things you don't know nothing about! They're just cute things I'm going to
cook something grand suppers in, for my something awful bad boy."

He leaned down to kiss her at that. "Gee!"

She was standing, her shoulder to him and head thrown back against his
chest. She looked up to stroke his cheek, her face foreshortened.

"I'm all black and blue pinching myself, Jimmie."

"Me too."

"Every night when I get home from working here in the flat I say to
myself in the looking-glass,
 I say, 'Gertie Slayback, what if you're only
dreamin'?'"

"Me too."

"I say to myself, 'Are you sure that darling flat up there, with the new
pink-and-white wall-paper and the furniture arriving every day, is going to
be yours in a few days when you're Mrs. Jimmie Batch?'"

"Mrs. Jimmie Batch--say, that's immense."

"I keep saying it to myself every night, 'One day less.' Last night it was
two days. To-night it'll be--one day, Jimmie, till I'm--her."

She closed her eyes and let her hand linger up at his cheek, head still
back against him, so that, inclining his head, he could rest his lips in
the ash-blond fluff of her hair.

"Talk about can't wait! If to-morrow was any farther off they'd have to
sweep out a padded cell for me."

She turned to rumple the smooth light thatch of his hair. "Bad boy! Can't
wait! And here we are getting married all of a sudden, just like that. Up
to the time of this draft business, Jimmie Batch, 'pretty soon' was the
only date I could ever get out of you, and now here you are crying over one
day's wait. Bad honey boy!"

He reached back for the pink newspaper so habitually protruding from
his hip pocket. "You ought to see the way they're neck-breaking for the
marriage-license bureaus since the draft. First thing we know, tine whole
shebang of the boys will be claiming the exemption of sole support of
wife."

"It's a good thing we made up our minds quick, Jimmie. They'll be getting
wise. If too many get exemption from the army by marrying right away, it'll
be a give-away."

"I'd like to know who can lay his hands on the exemption of a little wife
to support."

"Oh, Jimmie, it--it sounds so funny. Being supported! Me that always did
the supporting, not only to me, but to my mother and great-grand-mother up
to the day they died."

"I'm the greatest little supporter you ever seen."

"Me getting up mornings to stay at home in my own darling little flat, and
no basement or time-clock. Nothing but a busy little hubby to eat him nice,
smelly, bacon breakfast and grab him nice morning newspap
er, kiss him
wifie, and run downtown to support her. Jimmie, every morning for your
breakfast I'm going to fry--"

"You bet your life he's going to support her, and he's going to pay back
that forty dollars of his girl's that went into his wedding duds, that
hundred and ninety of his girl's savings that went into furniture--"

"We got to meet our instalments every month first, Jimmie. That's what we
want--no debts and every little darling piece of furniture paid up."

"We--I'm going to pay it, too."

"And my Jimmie is going to work to get himself promoted and quit being a
sorehead at his steady hours and all."

"I know more about selling, honey, than the whole bunch of dubs in that
store put together if they'd give me a chance to prove it."

She laid her palm to his lips.

"'Shh-h-h! You don't nothing of the kind. It's not conceit, it's work is
going to get my boy his raise."

"If they'd listen to me, that department would--"

"'Shh-h! J. G. Hoffheimer don't have to get pointers from Jimmie Batch how
to run his department store."

"There you go again. What's J. G. Hoffheimer got that I 'ain't? Luck and a
few dollars in his pocket that, if I had in mine, would--

"It was his own grit put those dollars there, Jimmie. Just put it out of
your head that it's luck makes a self-made man."

"Self-made! You mean things just broke right for him. That's two-thirds of
this self-made business."

"You mean he buckled right down to brass tacks, and that's what my boy is
going to do."

"The trouble with this world is it takes money to make money. Get your
first few dollars, I always say, no matter how, and then when you're on
your feet scratch your conscience if it itches. That's why I said in the
beginning, if we had took that hundred and ninety furniture money and
staked it on--"

"Jimmie, please--please! You wouldn't want to take a girl's savings of
years and years to gamble on a sporty cigar proposition with a card-room in
the rear. You wouldn't, Jimmie. You ain't that kind of fellow. Tell me you
wouldn't, Jimmie."

He turne
d away to dive down into the barrel. "Naw," he said, "I wouldn't."

The sun had receded, leaving a sudden sullen gray, the little square room,
littered with an upheaval of excelsior, sheet-shrouded furniture, and the
paperhanger's paraphernalia and inimitable smells, darkening and seeming to
chill.

"We got to quit now, Jimmie. It's getting dark and the gas ain't turned on
in the meter yet."

He rose up out of the barrel, holding out at arm's-length what might have
been a tinsmith's version of a porcupine.

"What in--What's this thing that scratched me?"

She danced to take it. "It's a grater, a darling grater for horseradish and
nutmeg and cocoanut. I'm going to fix you a cocoanut cake for our
honeymoon supper to-morrow night, honey-bee. Essie Wohlgemuth over in the
cake-demonstrating department is going to bring me the recipe. Cocoanut
cake! And I'm going to fry us a little steak in this darling little
skillet. Ain't it the cutest!"

"Cute she calls a tin skillet."

"Look what's pasted on it. 'Little Housewife's Skillet. The Kitchen Fairy.'
That's what I'm going to be, Jimmie, the kitchen fairy. Give me that. It's
a rolling-pin. All my life I've wanted a rolling-pin. Look, honey, a little
string to hang it up by. I'm going to hang everything up in rows. It's
going to look like Tiffany's kitchen, all shiny. Give me, honey; that's an
egg-beater. Look at it whiz. And this--this is a pan for war bread. I'm
going to make us war bread to help the soldiers."

"You're a little soldier yourself," he said.

"That's what I would be if I was a man, a soldier all in brass buttons."

"There's a bunch of the fellows going," said Mr. Batch, standing at the
window, looking out over roofs, dilly-dallying up and down on his heels
and breaking into a low, contemplative whistle. She was at his shoulder,
peering over it. "You wouldn't be afraid, would you, Jimmie?"

"You bet your life I wouldn't."

She was tiptoes now, her arms creeping up to him. "Only my boy's got a
wife--a brand-new wifie to support, 'ain't he?"

"That's what he 
has," said Mr. Batch, stroking her forearm, but still
gazing through and beyond whatever roofs he was seeing.

"Jimmie!"

"Huh?"

"Look! We got a view of the Hudson River from our flat, just like we lived
on Riverside Drive."

"All the Hudson River I can see is fifteen smoke-stacks and somebody's
wash-line out."

"It ain't so. We got a grand view. Look! Stand on tiptoe, Jimmie, like me.
There, between that water-tank on that black roof over there and them two
chimneys. See? Watch my finger. A little stream of something over there
that moves."

"No, I don't see."

"Look, honey-bee, close! See that little streak?"

"All right, then, if you see it I see it."

"To think we got a river view from our flat! It's like living in the
country. I'll peek out at it all day long. God! honey, I just never will be
over the happiness of being done with basements."

"It was swell of old Higgins to give us this half-Saturday. It shows where
you stood with the management, Gert--this and a five-dollar gold piece.
Lord knows they wouldn't pony up that way if it was me getting married by
myself."

"It's because my boy 'ain't shown them down there yet the best that's in
him. You just watch his little safety-first wife see to it that from now on
he keeps up her record of never in seven years punching the time-clock even
one minute late, and that he keeps his stock shelves O. K. and shows his
department he's a comer-on."

"With that bunch of boobs a fellow's got a swell chance to get anywheres."

"It's getting late, Jimmie. It don't look nice for us to stay here so late
alone, not till--to-morrow. Ruby and Essie and Charley are going to meet us
in the minister's back parlor at ten sharp in the morning. We can be
back here by noon and get the place cleared enough to give 'em a little
lunch--just a fun lunch without fixings."

"I hope the old guy don't waste no time splicing us. It's one of the things
a fellow likes to have over with."

"Jimmie! Why, it's the most beautiful thing in the world, like a garden of
lilies or--or something, a mar
riage ceremony is! You got the ring safe,
honey-bee, and the license?"

"Pinned in my pocket where you put 'em, Flirty Gertie."

"Flirty Gertie! Now you'll begin teasing me with that all our life--the
way I didn't slap your face that night when I should have. I just couldn't
have, honey. Goes to show we were just cut and dried for each other, don't
it? Me, a girl that never in her life let a fellow even bat his eyes at her
without an introduction. But that night when you winked, honey--something
inside of me just winked back."

"My girl!"

"You mean it, boy? You ain't sorry about nothing, Jimmie?"

"Sorry? Well, I guess not!"

"You saw the way--she--May--you saw for yourself what she was, when we saw
her walking, that next night after Ceiner's, nearly staggering, up Sixth
Avenue with Budge Evans."

"I never took any stock in her, honey. I was just letting her like me."

She sat back on the box edge, regarding him, her face so soft and wont to
smile that she could not keep her composure.

"Get me my hat and coat, honey. We'll walk down. Got the key?"

They skirmished in the gloom, moving through slit-like aisles of furniture
and packing-box.

"Ouch!"

"Oh, the running water is hot, Jimmie, just like the ad said! We got
red-hot running water in our flat. Close the front windows, honey. We don't
want it to rain in on our new green sofa. Not 'til it's paid for, anyways."

"Hurry."

"I'm ready."

They met at the door, kissing on the inside and the outside of it; at the
head of the fourth, third, and the second balustrade down.

"We'll always make 'em little love landings, Jimmie, so we can't ever get
tired climbing them."

"Yep."

Outside there was still a pink glow in a clean sky. The first flush of
spring in the air had died, leaving chill. They walked briskly, arm in arm,
down the asphalt incline of sidewalk leading from their apartment house, a
new street of canned homes built on a hillside--the sepulchral abode of the
city's trapped whose only escape is down the fire-escape, and then only
when the alternative is 
death. At the base of the hill there flows, in
constant hubbub, a great up-and-down artery of street, repeating
itself, mile after mile, in terms of the butcher, the baker, and the
"every-other-corner drug-store of a million dollar corporation". Housewives
with perambulators and oil-cloth shopping bags. Children on rollerskates.
The din of small tradesmen and the humdrum of every city block where the
homes remain unbearded all summer and every wife is on haggling terms with
the purveyor of her evening roundsteak and mess of rutabaga.

Then there is the soap-box provender, too, sure of a crowd, offering creed,
propaganda, patent medicine, and politics. It is the pulpit of the reformer
and the housetop of the fanatic, this soapbox. From it the voice to the
city is often a pious one, an impious one, and almost always a raucous one.
Luther and Sophocles, and even a Citizen of Nazareth made of the four winds
of the street corner the walls of a temple of wisdom. What more fitting
acropolis for freedom of speech than the great out-of-doors!

Turning from the incline of cross-street into this petty Baghdad of
the petty wise, the voice of the street corner lifted itself above
the inarticulate din of the thoroughfare. A youth, thewed like an ox,
surmounted on a stack of three self provided canned-goods boxes, his
in-at-the-waist silhouette thrown out against a sky that was almost ready
to break out in stars; a crowd tightening about him.

"It's a soldier boy talkin', Gert."

"If it ain't!" They tiptoed at the fringe of the circle, heads back.

"Look, Gert, he's a lieutenant; he's got a shoulder-bar. And those four
down there holding the flags are just privates. You can always tell a
lieutenant by the bar."

"Uh-huh."

"Say, them boys do stack up some for Uncle Sam."

"'Shh-h-h, Jimmie!"

"I'm here to tell you that them boys stack up some."

A banner stiffened out in the breeze, Mr. Batch reading: "Enlist before you
are drafted. Last chance to beat the draft. Prove your patriotism. Enlist
now! Your country calls!"

"Come on
," said Mr. Batch.

"Wait. I want to hear what he's saying."

"... there's not a man here before me can afford to shirk his duty to his
country. The slacker can't get along without his country, but his country
can very easily get along without him."

Cheers.

"The poor exemption boobs are already running for doctors' certificates and
marriage licenses, but even if they get by with it--and it is ninety-nine
to one they won't--they can't run away from their own degradation and
shame."

"Come on, Jimmie."

"Wait."

"Men of America, for every one of you who tries to dodge his duty to his
country there is a yellow streak somewhere underneath the hide of you.
Women of America, every one of you that helps to foster the spirit of
cowardice in your particular man or men is helping to make a coward. It's
the cowards and the quitters and the slackers and dodgers that need this
war more than the patriotic ones who are willing to buckle on and go!

"Don't be a buttonhole patriot! A government that is good enough to live
under is good enough to fight under!"

Cheers.

"If there is any reason on earth has manifested itself for this devastating
and terrible war it is that it has been a maker of men.

"Ladies and gentlemen, I am back from four months in the trenches with the
French army, and I've come home, now that my own country is at war, to give
her every ounce of energy I've got to offer. As soon as a hole in my side
is healed up. I'm going back to those trenches, and I want to say to you
that them four months of mine face to face with life and with death have
done more for me than all my twenty-four civilian years put together."

Cheers.

"I'll be a different man, if I live to come back home after this war
and take up my work again as a draftsman. Why, I've seen weaklings and
self-confessed failures and even ninnies go into them trenches and come
out--oh yes, plenty of them do come out--men. Men that have got close
enough down to the facts of things to feel new realizations of what life
means come over them. Men that have g
otten back their pep, their ambitions,
their unselfishness. That's what war can do for your men, you women who
are helping them to foster the spirit of holding back, of cheating their
government. That's what war can do for your men. Make of them the kind
of men who some day can face their children without having to hang their
heads. Men who can answer for their part in making the world a safe place
for democracy."

An hour they stood there, the air quieting but chilling, and lavishly sown
stars cropping out. Street lights had come out, too, throwing up in ever
darker relief the figure above the heads of the crowd. His voice had
coarsened and taken on a raw edge, but every gesture was flung from the
socket, and from where they had forced themselves into the tight circle
Gertie Slayback, her mouth fallen open and her head still back, could see
the sinews of him ripple under khaki and the diaphragm lift for voice.

There was a shift of speakers then, this time a private, still too rangy,
but his looseness of frame seeming already to conform to the exigency of
uniform.

"Come on, Jimmie. I--I'm cold."

They worked out into the freedom of the sidewalk, and for ten minutes, down
blocks of petty shops already lighted, walked in a silence that grew apace.

He was suddenly conscious that she was crying, quietly, her handkerchief
wadded against her mouth. He strode on with a scowl and his head bent.
"Let's sit down in this little park, Jimmie. I'm tired."

They rested on a bench on one of those small triangles of breathing space
which the city ekes out now and then; mill ends of land parcels.

He took immediately to roving the toe of his shoe in and out among the
gravel. She stole out her hand to his arm.

"Well, Jimmie?" Her voice was in the gauze of a whisper that hardly left
her throat.

"Well, what?" he said, still toeing.

"There--there's a lot of things we never thought about, Jimmie."

"Aw!"

"Eh, Jimmie?"

"You mean _you_ never thought about it?"

"What do you mean?"

"I know what I mean alrighty."

"I--I was the o
ne that suggested it, Jimmie, but--but you fell in. I--I
just couldn't bear to think of it, Jimmie--your going and all. I suggested
it, but--but you fell in."

"Say, when a fellow's shoved he falls. I never gave a thought to sneaking
an exemption until it was put in my head. I'd smash the fellow in the face
that calls me coward, I will."

"You could have knocked me down with a feather, Jimmie, looking at it his
way all of a sudden."

"You couldn't knock me down. Don't think I was ever strong enough for the
whole business. I mean the exemption part. I wasn't going to say anything.
What's the use, seeing the way you had your heart set on--on things? But
the whole business, if you want to know it, went against my grain. I'll
smash the fellow in the face that calls me coward."

"I know, Jimmie; you--you're right. It was me suggested hurrying things
like this. Sneakin'! Oh, God! ain't I the messer-up!"

"Lay easy, girl. I'm going to see it through. I guess there's been fellows
before me and will be after me who have done worse. I'm going to see it
through. All I got to say is I'll smash up the fellow calls me coward. Come
on, forget it. Let's go."

She was close to him, her cheek crinkled against his with the frank kind of
social unconsciousness the park bench seems to engender.

"Come on, Gert. I got a hunger on."

'"Shh-h-h, Jimmie! Let me think. I'm thinking."

"Too much thinking killed a cat. Come on."

"Jimmie!"

"Huh?"

"Jimmie--would you--had you ever thought about being a soldier?"

"Sure. I came in an ace of going into the army that time after--after that
little Central Street trouble of mine. I've got a book in my trunk this
minute on military tactics. Wouldn't surprise me a bit to see me land in
the army some day."

"It's a fine thing, Jimmie, for a fellow--the army."

"Yeh, good for what ails him."

She drew him back, pulling at his shoulder so that finally he faced her.
"Jimmie!"

"Huh?"

"I got an idea."

"Shoot."

"You remember once, honey-bee, how I put it to you that night at Ceiner's
how, if it was f
or your good, no sacrifice was too much to make."

"Forget it."

"You didn't believe it."

"Aw, say now, what's the use digging up ancient history?"

"You'd be right, Jimmie, not to believe it. I haven't lived up to what I
said."

"Oh Lord, honey! What's eating you now? Come to the point."

She would not meet his eyes, turning her head from him to hide lips
that would quiver. "Honey, it--it ain't coming off--that's all. Not
now--anyways."

"What ain't?"

"Us."

"Who?"

"You know what I mean, Jimmie. It's like everything the soldier boy on the
corner just said. I--I saw you getting red clear behind your ears over it.
I--I was, too, Jimmie. It's like that soldier boy was put there on that
corner just to show me, before it was too late, how wrong I been in every
one of my ways. Us women who are helping to foster slackers. That's what
we're making of them--slackers for life. And here I been thinking it was
your good I had in mind, when all along it's been mine. That's what it's
been, mine!"

"Aw, now, Gert--"

"You got to go, Jimmie. You got to go, because you want to go and--because
I want you to go."

"Where?"

"To war."

He took hold of her two arms because they were trembling. "Aw, now, Gert, I
didn't say anything complaining. I--"

"You did, Jimmie, you did, and--and I never was so glad over you that you
did complain. I just never was so glad. I want you to go, Jimmie. I want
you to go and get a man made out of you. They'll make a better job out of
you than ever I can. I want you to get the yellow streak washed out. I want
you to get to be all the things he said you would. For every line he was
talking up there, I could see my boy coming home to me some day better than
anything I could make out of him, babying him the way I can't help doing. I
could see you, honey-bee, coming back to me with the kind of lift to your
head a fellow has when he's been fighting to make the world a safe place
for dem--for whatever it was he said. I want you to go, Jimmie. I want you
to beat the draft, too. Nothing on earth can make m
e not want you to go."

"Why, Gert--you're kiddin'!"

"Honey, you want to go, don't you? You want to square up those shoulders
and put on khaki, don't you? Tell me you want to go!"

"Why--why, yes, Gert, if--"

"Oh, you're going, Jimmie! You're going!"

"Why, girl--you're crazy! Our flat! Our furniture--our--"

"What's a flat? What's furniture? What's anything? There's not a firm in
business wouldn't take back a boy's furniture--a boy's everything--that's
going out to fight for--for dem-o-cracy! What's a flat? What's anything?"

He let drop his head to hide his eyes.

Do you know it is said that on the Desert of Sahara, the <DW72> of Sorrento,
and the marble of Fifth Avenue the sun can shine whitest? There is an
iridescence to its glittering on bleached sand, blue bay, and Carrara
facade that is sheer light distilled to its utmost.

On one such day when, standing on the high <DW72> of Fifth Avenue where it
rises toward the Park, and looking down on it, surging to and fro, it was
as if, so manifest the brilliancy, every head wore a tin helmet, parrying
sunlight at a thousand angles of refraction.

Parade-days, all this glittering midstream is swept to the clean sheen of
a strip of moire, this splendid desolation blocked on each side by crowds
half the density of the sidewalk.

On one of these sun-drenched Saturdays dedicated by a growing tradition to
this or that national expression, the Ninety-ninth Regiment, to a flare of
music that made the heart leap out against its walls, turned into a scene
thus swept clean for it, a wave of olive drab, impeccable row after
impeccable row of scissors-like legs advancing. Recruits, raw if you will,
but already caparisoned, sniffing and scenting, as it were, for the great
primordial mire of war.

There is no state of being so finely sensitized as national consciousness.
A gauntlet down and it surges up. One ripple of a flag defended can
goose-flesh a nation. How bitter and how sweet it is to give a soldier!

To the seething kinetic chemistry of such mingling emotions there wer
e
women who stood in the frontal crowds of the sidewalks stifling hysteria,
or ran after in terror at sight of one so personally hers, receding in that
great impersonal wave of olive drab.

And yet the air was martial with banner and with shout. And the ecstasy of
such moments is like a dam against reality, pressing it back. It is in the
pompless watches of the night or of too long days that such dams break,
excoriating.

For the thirty blocks of its course Gertie Slayback followed that wave of
men, half run and half walk. Down from the curb, and at the beck and call
of this or that policeman up again, only to find opportunity for still
another dive out from the invisible roping off of the sidewalk crowds.

From the middle of his line, she could see, sometimes, the tail of Jimmie
Batch's glance roving for her, but to all purports his eye was solely for
his own replica in front of him, and at such times, when he marched, his
back had a little additional straightness that was almost swayback.

Nor was Gertie Slayback crying. On the contrary, she was inclined to
laughter. A little too inclined to a high and brittle sort of dissonance
over which she seemed to have no control.

"'By, Jimmie! So long! Jimmie! You-hoo!"

Tramp. Tramp. Tramp-tramp-tramp.

"You-hoo! Jimmie! So long, Jimmie!"

At Fourteenth Street, and to the solemn stroke of one from a tower, she
broke off suddenly without even a second look back, dodging under the very
arms of the crowd as she ran out from it.

She was one and three-quarter minutes late when she punched the time-clock
beside the Complaints and Adjustment Desk in the Bargain-Basement.

II

SIEVE OF FULFILMENT

How constant a stream is the runnel of men's small affairs!

Dynasties may totter and half the world bleed to death, but one or the
other corner _patisserie_ goes on forever.

At a moment when the shadow of world-war was over the country like a pair
of black wings lowering Mrs. Harry Ross, who swooned at the sight of blood
from a penknife scratch down the hand of her son, but yawned
 over the
head-line statistics of the casualties at Verdun, lifted a lid from a pot
that exuded immediate savory fumes, prodded with a fork at its content, her
concern boiled down to deal solely with stew.

An alarm-clock on a small shelf edged in scalloped white oilcloth ticked
with spick-and-span precision into a kitchen so correspondingly spick and
span that even its silence smelled scoured, rows of tins shining into it.
A dun- kind of dusk, soot floating in it, began to filter down the
air-shaft, dimming them.

Mrs. Ross lowered the shade and lighted the gas-jet. So short that in the
long run she wormed first through a crowd, she was full of the genial
curves that, though they bespoke three lumps in her coffee in an elevator
and escalator age, had not yet reached uncongenial proportions. In fact,
now, brushing with her bare forearm across her moistly pink face, she was
like Flora, who, rather than fade, became buxom.

A door slammed in an outer hall, as she was still stirring and looking down
into the stew.

"Edwin!"

"Yes, mother."

"Don't track through the parlor."

"Aw!"

"You hear me?"

"I yain't! Gee, can't a feller walk?"

"Put your books on the hat-rack."

"I am."

She supped up bird-like from the tip of her spoon, smacking for flavor.

"I made you an asafetida-bag, Edwin, it's in your drawer. Don't you leave
this house to-morrow without it on."

"Aw-w-w-w-w!"

"It don't smell."

"Where's my stamp-book?"

"On your table, where it belongs."

"Gee whiz! if you got my Argentine stamps mixed!"

"Get washed."

"Where's my batteries?"

"Under your bed, where they belong."

"I'm hungry."

"Your father'll be home any minute now. Don't spoil your appetite."

"I got ninety in manual training, mother."

"Did yuh, Edwin?"

"All the other fellows only got seventy and eighty."

"Mamma's boy leads 'em."

He entered at that, submitting to a kiss upon an averted cheek.

"See what mother's fixed for you!"

"M-m-m-m! fritters!"

"Don't touch!"

"M-m-m-m--lamb stew!"

"I shopped all morning to get okra to go in it for you
r father."

"M-m-m-m-m!"

She tiptoed up to kiss him again, this time at the back of the neck,
carefully averting her floury hands.

"Mamma's boy! I made you three pen-wipers to-day out of the old red
table-cover."

"Aw, fellers don't use pen-wipers!"

He set up a jiggling, his great feet coming down with a clatter.

"Stop!"

"Can't I jig?"

"No; not with neighbors underneath."

He flopped down, hooking his heels in the chair-rung.

At sixteen's stage of cruel hazing into man's estate Edwin Ross, whose
voice, all in a breath, could slip up from the quality of rock in the
drilling to the more brittle octave of early-morning milk-bottles, wore a
nine shoe and a thirteen collar. His first long trousers were let down and
taken in. His second taken up and let out. When shaving promised to become
a manly accomplishment, his complexion suddenly clouded, postponing that
event until long after it had become a hirsute necessity. When he smiled
apoplectically above his first waistcoat and detachable collar, his Adam's
apple and his mother's heart fluttered.

"Blow-cat Dennis is going to City College."

"Who's he?"

"A feller."

"Quit crackin' your knuckles."

"He only got seventy in manual training."

"Tell them things to your father, Edwin; I 'ain't got the say-so."

"His father's only a bookkeeper, too, and they live 'way up on a Hundred
and Forty-fourth near Third."

"I'm willing to scrimp and save for it, Edwin; but in the end I haven't got
the say-so, and you know it."

"The boys that are going to college got to register now for the High School
College Society."

"Your father, Edwin, is the one to tell that to."

"Other fellers' mothers put in a word for 'em."

"I do, Edwin; you know I do! It only aggravates him--There's papa now,
Edwin, coming in. Help mamma dish up. Put this soup at papa's place and
this at yours. There's only two plates left from last night."

In Mrs. Ross's dining-room, a red-glass dome, swung by a chain over the
round table, illuminated its white napery and decently flowered china.
Beside the wind
ow looking out upon a gray-brick wall almost within reach,
a canary with a white-fluted curtain about the cage dozed headless. Beside
that window, covered in flowered chintz, a sewing-machine that could
collapse to a table; a golden-oak sideboard laid out in pressed glassware.
A homely simplicity here saved by chance or chintz from the simply homely.

Mr. Harry Ross drew up immediately beside the spread table, jerking
open his newspaper and, head thrown back, read slantingly down at the
head-lines.

"Hello, pop!"

"Hello, son!"

"Watch out!"

"Hah--that's the stuff! Don't spill!"

He jammed the newspaper between his and the chair back, shoving in closer
to the table. He was blond to ashiness, so that the slicked-back hair might
or might not be graying. Pink-shaved, unlined, nose-glasses polished to
sparkle, he was ten years his wife's senior and looked those ten years
younger. Clerks and clergymen somehow maintain that youth of the flesh, as
if life had preserved them in alcohol or shaving-lotion. Mrs. Ross entered
then in her crisp but faded house dress, her round, intent face still
moistly pink, two steaming dishes held out.

He did not rise, but reached up to kiss her as she passed.

"Burnt your soup a little to-night, mother."

She sat down opposite, breathing deeply outward, spreading her napkin out
across her lap.

"It was Edwin coming in from school and getting me worked up with his talk
about--about--"

"What?"

"Nothing. Edwin, run out and bring papa the paprika to take the burnt taste
out. I turned all the cuffs on your shirts to-day, Harry."

"Lordy! if you ain't fixing at one thing, you're fixing another."

"Anything new?"

He was well over his soup now, drinking in long draughts from the tip of
his spoon.

"News! In A. E. Unger's office, a man don't get his nose far enough up from
the ledger to even smell news."

"I see Goldfinch & Goetz failed."

"Could have told 'em they'd go under, trying to put on a spectacular show
written in verse. That same show boiled down to good Forty-second Street
lingo wi
th some good shapes and a proposition like Alma Zitelle to lift
it from poetry to punch has a world of money in it for somebody. A war
spectacular show filled with sure-fire patriotic lines, a bunch of
show-girl battalions, and a figure like Alma Zitelle's for the Goddess of
Liberty--a world of money, I tell you!"

"Honest, Harry?"

"That trench scene they built for that show is as fine a contrivance as
I've ever seen of the kind. What did they do? Set it to a lot of music
without a hum or a ankle in it. A few classy nurses like the Mercy Militia
Sextet, some live, grand-old-flag tunes by Harry Mordelle, and there's a
half a million dollars in that show. Unger thinks I'm crazy when I try to
get him interested, but I--"

"I got ninety in manual training to-day, pop."

"That's good, son. Little more of that stew, mother?"

"Unger isn't so smart, honey, he can't afford to take a tip off you once in
a while: you've proved that to him."

"Yes, but go tell him so."

"He'll live to see the day he's got to give you credit for being the first
to see money in 'Pan-America.'"

"Credit? Huh! to hear him tell it, he was born with that idea in his bullet
head."

"I'd like to hear him say it to me, if ever I lay eyes on him, that it
wasn't you who begged him to get into it."

"I'll show 'em some day in that office that I can pick the winners for
myself, as well as for the other fellow. Believe me, Unger hasn't raised
me to fifty a week for my fancy bookkeeping, and he knows it, and, what's
more, he knows I know he knows it."

"The fellers that are goin' to college next term have to register for the
High School College Society, pop--dollar dues."

"Well, you aren't going to college, and that's where you and I save a
hundred cents on the dollar. Little more gravy, mother."

The muscles of Edwin's face relaxed, his mouth dropping to a pout, the
crude features quivering.

"Aw, pop, a feller nowadays without a college education don't stand a
show."

"He don't, don't he? I know one who will."

Edwin threw a quivering glance to his mo
ther and gulped through a
constricted throat.

"Mother says I--I can go if only you--"

"Your mother'd say you could have the moon, too, if she had to climb a
greased pole to get it. She'd start weaving door-mats for the Cingalese
Hottentots if she thought they needed 'em."

"But, Harry, he--"

"Your mother 'ain't got the bills of this shebang to worry about, and your
mother don't mind having a college sissy a-laying around the house to
support five years longer. I do."

"It's the free City College, pop."

"You got a better education now than nine boys out of ten. If you ain't man
enough to want to get out after four years of high school and hustle for
a living, you got to be shown the way out. I started when I was in short
pants, and you're no better than your father. Your mother sold notions and
axle-grease in an up-State general store up to the day she married. Now cut
out the college talk you been springing on me lately. I won't have it--you
hear? You're a poor man's son, and the sooner you make up your mind to it
the better. Pass the chow-chow, mother."

Nervousness had laid hold of her so that in and out among the dishes her
hand trembled.

"You see, Harry, it's the free City College, and--"

"I know that free talk. So was high school free when you talked me into
it, but if it ain't one thing it's been another. Cadet uniform, football
suit--"

"The child's got talent for invention, Harry; his manual-training teacher
told me his air-ship model was--"

"I got ninety in manual training when the other fellers only got seventy."

"I guess you're looking for another case like your father, sitting
penniless around the house, tinkering on inventions up to the day he died."

"Pa never had the business push, Harry. You know yourself his churn was
ready for the market before the Peerless beat him in on it."

"Well, your son is going to get the business push trained into him. No boy
of mine with a poor daddy eats up four years of his life and my salary
training to be a college sissy. That's for the rich men's sons. Tha
t's for
the Clarence Ungers."

"I'll pay it back some day, pop; I--."

"They all say that."

"If it's the money, Harry, maybe I can--"

"If it didn't cost a cent, I wouldn't have it. Now cut it out--you hear?
Quick!"

Edwin Ross pushed back from the table, struggling and choking against
impending tears. "Well, then, I--I--"

"And no shuffling of feet, neither!"

"He didn't shuffle, Harry; it's just his feet growing so fast he can't
manage them."

"Well, just the samey, I--I ain't going into the theayter business. I--I--"

Mr. Ross flung down his napkin, facing him. "You're going where I put you,
young man. You're going to get the right kind of a start that I didn't get
in the biggest money-making business in the world."

"I won't. I'll get me a job in an aeroplane-factory."

His father's palm came down with a small crash, shivering the china. "By
Gad! you take that impudence out of your voice to me or I'll rawhide it
out!"

"Harry!"

"Leave the table!"

"Harry, he's only a child--"

"Go to your room!"

His heavy, unformed lips now trembling frankly against the tears he tried
so furiously to resist, Edwin charged with lowered head from the room, sobs
escaping in raw gutturals.

Mr. Ross came back to his plate, breathing heavily, fist, with a knife
upright in it, coming down again on the table, his mouth open, to
facilitate labored breathing.

"By Heaven! I'll cowhide that boy to his senses! I've never laid hand on
him yet, but he ain't too old. I'll get him down to common sense, if I got
to break a rod over him."

Handkerchief against trembling lips, Mrs. Ross looked after the vanished
form, eyes brimming.

"Harry, you--you're so rough with him."

"I'll be rougher yet before I'm through."

"He's only a--"

"He's rewarding the way you scrimped to pay his expenses for nonsense clubs
and societies by asking you to do it another four years. You're getting
your thanks now. College! Well, not if the court knows it--"

"He's got talent, Harry; his teacher says he--"

"So'd your father have talent."

"If pa hadn't lost hi
s eye in the Civil War--"

"I'm going to put my son's talent where I can see a future for it."

"He's ambitious, Harry."

"So'm I--to see my son trained to be something besides a looney inventor
like his grandfather before him."

"It's all I want in life, Harry, to see my two boys of you happy."

"It's your woman-ideas I got to blame for this. I want you to stop, Millie,
putting rich man's ideas in his head. You hear? I won't stand for it."

"Harry, if--if it's the money, maybe I could manage--"

"Yes--and scrimp and save and scrooge along without a laundress another
four years, and do his washing and--"

"I--could fix the money part, Harry--easy."

He regarded her with his jaw dropped in the act of chewing.

"By Gad! where do you plant it?"

"It--it's the way I scrimp, Harry. Another woman would spend it on clothes
or--a servant--or matinees. It ain't hard for a home body like me to save,
Harry."

He reached across the table for her wrist.

"Poor little soul," he said, "you don't see day-light."

"Let him go, Harry, if--if he wants it. I can manage the money."

His scowl returned, darkening him.

"No. A. E. Unger never seen the inside of a high school, much less a
college, and I guess he's made as good a pile as most. I've worked for the
butcher and the landlord all my life, and now I ain't going to begin being
a slave to my boy. There's been two or three times in my life where, for
want of a few dirty dollars to make a right start, I'd be, a rich man
to-day. My boy's going to get that right start."

"But, Harry, college will--"

"I seen money in 'Pan-America' long before Unger ever dreamed of producing
it. I sicked him onto 'The Official Chaperon' when every manager in town
had turned it down. I went down and seen 'em doing 'The White Elephant' in
a Yiddish theater and wired Unger out in Chicago to come back and grab it
for Broadway. Where's it got me? Nowhere. Because I whiled away the best
fifteen years of my life in an up-State burg, and then, when I came down
here too late in life, got in the rut of a salar
ied man. Well, where it
'ain't got me it's going to get my son. I'm missing a chance, to-day that,
mark my word, would make me a rich man but for want of a few--"

"Harry, you mean that?"

"My hunch never fails me."

She was leaning across the table, her hands clasping its edge, her small,
plump face even pinker.

He threw out his legs beneath the table and sat back, hands deep in
pockets, and a toothpick hanging limp from between lips that were sagging.

"Gad! if I had my life to live over again as a salaried man, I'd--I'd hang
myself first! The way to start a boy to a million dollars in this business
is to start him young in the producing-end of a strong firm."

"You--got faith in this Goldfinch & Goetz failure like you had in
'Pan-America' and 'The Chaperon,' Harry?"

"I said it five years ago and it come to pass. I say it now. For want of a
few dirty dollars I'm a poor man till I die."

"How--many dollars, Harry?"

"Don't make me say it, Millie--it makes me sick to my stummick. Three
thousand dollars would buy the whole spectacle to save it from the
storehouse. I tried Charley Ryan--he wouldn't risk a ten-spot on a
failure."

"Harry, I--oh, Harry--"

"Why, mother, what's the matter? You been overworking again, ironing my
shirts and collars when they ought to go to the laundry? You--"

"Harry, what would you say if--if I was to tell you something?"

"What is it, mother? You better get Annie in on Mondays. We 'ain't got any
more to show without her than with her."

"Harry, we--have!"

"Well, you just had an instance of the thanks you get."

"Harry, what--what would you say if I could let you have nearly all of that
three thousand?"

He regarded her above the flare of a match to his cigar-end.

"Huh?"

"If I could let you have twenty-six hundred seventeen dollars and about
fifty cents of it?"

He sat well up, the light reflecting in points off his polished glasses.

"Mother, you're joking!"

Her hands were out across the table now, almost reaching his, her face
close and screwed under the lights.

"When--when yo
u lost out that time five years ago on 'Pan-America' and I
seen how Linger made a fortune out of it, I says to myself, 'It can never
happen again.' You remember the next January when you got your raise to
fifty and I wouldn't move out of this flat, and instead gave up having
Annie in, that was what I had in my head, Harry. It wasn't only for sending
Edwin to high school; it was for--my other boy, too, Harry, so it couldn't
happen again."

"Millie, you mean--"

"You ain't got much idea, Harry, of what I been doing. You don't know it,
honey, but, honest, I ain't bought a stitch of new clothes for five years.
You know I ain't, somehow--made friends for myself since we moved here."

"It's the hard shell town of the world!"

"You ain't had time, Harry, to ask yourself what becomes of the house
allowance, with me stinting so. Why, I--I won't spend car fare, Harry,
since 'Pan-America,' if I can help it. This meal I served up here t-night,
with all the high cost of living, didn't cost us two thirds what it
might if--if I didn't have it all figured up. Where do you think your
laundry-money that I've been saving goes, Harry? The marmalade-money I
made the last two Christmases? The velvet muff I made myself out of the
fur-money you give me? It's all in the Farmers' Trust, Harry. With the two
hundred and ten I had to start with five years ago, it's twenty-six hundred
and seventeen dollars and fifty cents now. I've been saving it for this
kind of a minute, Harry. When it got three thousand, I was going to tell
you, anyways. Is that enough, Harry, to do the Goldfinch-Goetz spectacle on
your own hook? Is it, Harry?"

He regarded her in a heavy-jawed kind of stupefaction.

"Woman alive!" he said. "Great Heavens, woman alive!"

"It's in the bank, waiting, Harry--all for you."

"Why, Millie, I--I don't know what to say."

"I want you to have it, Harry. It's yours. Out of your pocket, back into
it. You got capital to start with now."

"I--Why, I can't take that money, Millie, from you!"

"From your wife? When she stinted and scrimp
ed and saved on shoe-leather
for the happiness of it?"

"Why, this is no sure thing I got on the brain."

"Nothing is."

"I got nothing but my own judgment to rely on."

"You been right three times, Harry."

"There's not as big a gamble in the world as the show business. I can't
take your savings, mother."

"Harry, if--if you don't, I'll tear it up. It's what I've worked for. I'm
too tired, Harry, to stand much. If you don't take it, I--I'm too tired,
Harry, to stand it."

"But, mother--"

"I couldn't stand it, I tell you," she said, the tears now bursting and
flowing down over her cheeks.

"Why, Millie, you mustn't cry! I 'ain't seen you cry in years. Millie! my
God! I can't get my thoughts together! Me to own a show after all these
years; me to--"

"Don't you think it means something to me, too, Harry?"

"I can't lose, Millie. Even if this country gets drawn into the war,
there's a mint of money in that show as I see it. It'll help the people.
The people of this country need to have their patriotism tickled."

"All my life, Harry, I've wanted a gold-mesh bag with a row of sapphires
and diamonds across the top--"

"I'm going to make it the kind of show that 'Dixie' was a song--"

"And a gold- bird-of-paradise for a black-velvet hat, all my life,
Harry--"

"With Alma Zitelle in the part--"

"Is it her picture I found in your drawer the other day, Harry, cut out
from a Sunday newspaper?"

"One and the same. I been watching her. There's a world of money in that
woman, whoever she is. She's eccentric and they make her play straight, but
if I could get hold of her--My God! Millie, I--I can't believe things!"

She rose, coming round to lay her arms across his shoulders.

"We'll be rich, maybe, Harry--"

"I've picked the winners for the other fellows every time, Mil."

"Anyhow, it's worth the gamble, Harry."

"I got a nose for what the people want. I've never been able to prove it
from a high stool, but I'll show 'em now--by God! I'll show 'em now!" He
sprang up, pulling the white table-cloth awry and folding her into 
his
embrace. "I'll show 'em."

She leaned from him, her two hands against his chest, head thrown back and
eyes up to him.

"We--can educate our boy, then, Harry, like--like a rich man's son."

"We ain't rich yet."

"Promise me, Harry, if we are--promise me that, Harry. It's the only
promise I ask out of it. Whatever comes, if we win or lose, our boy can
have college if he wants."

He held her close, his head up and gazing beyond her.

"With a rich daddy my boy can go to college like the best of 'em."

"Promise me that, Harry."

"I promise, Millie."

He released her then, feeling for an envelope in an inner pocket, and,
standing there above the disarrayed dinner-table, executed some rapid
figures across the back of it.

She stood for a moment regarding him, hands pressed against the sting of
her cheeks, tears flowing down over her smile. Then she took up the plate
of cloying fritters and tiptoed out, opening softly the door to a slit of
a room across the hall. In the patch of light let in by that opened door,
drawn up before a small table, face toward her ravaged with recent tears,
and lips almost quivering, her son lay in the ready kind of slumber youth
can bring to any woe. She tiptoed up beside him, placing the plate of
fritters back on a pile of books, let her hands run lightly over his hair,
kissed him on each swollen lid.

"My son! My little boy! My little boy!"

Where Broadway leaves off its roof-follies and its water-dancing, its
eighty-odd theaters and its very odd Hawaiian cabarets, upper Broadway,
widening slightly, takes up its macadamized rush through the city in
block-square apartment-houses, which rise off plate-glass foundations of
the de-luxe greengrocer shops, the not-so-green beauty-parlors, and the
dyeing-and-cleaning, automobile-supplies, and confectionery establishments
of middle New York.

In a no-children-allowed, swimming-pool, electric-laundry, roof-garden,
dogs'-playground, cold-storage apartment most recently erected on a
block-square tract of upper Broadway, belonging to and named afte
r the
youngest scion of an ancestor whose cow-patches had turned to kingdoms, the
fifteenth layer of this gigantic honeycomb overlooked from its seventeen
outside windows the great Babylonian valley of the city, the wide blade
of the river shining and curving slightly like an Arabian dagger, and the
embankment of New Jersey's Palisades piled against the sky with the effect
of angry horizon.

Nights, viewed from one of the seventeen windows, it was as if the river
flowed under a sullen sheath which undulated to its curves. On clear days
it threw off light like parrying steel in sunshine.

Were days when, gazing out toward it, Mrs. Ross, whose heart was like a
slow ache of ever-widening area, could almost feel its laving quality and,
after the passage of a tug- or pleasure-boat, the soothing folding of the
water down over and upon itself. Often, with the sun setting pink and whole
above the Palisades, the very copper glow which was struck off the water
would beat against her own west windows, and, as if smarting under the
brilliance, tears would come, sometimes staggering and staggering down,
long after the glow was cold. With such a sunset already waned, and the
valley of unrest fifteen stories below popping out into electric signs and
the red danger-lanterns of streets constantly in the remaking, Mrs. Harry
Ross, from the corner window of her seventeen, looked down on it from under
lids that were rimmed in red.

Beneath the swirl of a gown that lay in an iridescent avalanche of sequins
about her feet, her foot, tilted to an unbelievable hypothenuse off a
cloth-of-silver heel, beat a small and twinkling tattoo, her fingers
tattooing, too, along the chair-sides.

How insidiously do the years nibble in! how pussy-footed and how cocksure
the crow's-feet! One morning, and the first gray hair, which has been
turning from the cradle, arrives. Another, the mirror shows back a
sag beneath the eyes. That sag had come now to Mrs. Ross, giving her
eye-sockets a look of unconquerable weariness. The streak of quicksilver
had c
ome, too, but more successfully combated. The head lying back against
the brocade chair was guilty of new gleams. Brass, with a greenish alloy.
Sitting there with the look of unshed tears seeming to form a film over
her gaze, it was as if the dusk, flowing into a silence that was solemnly
shaped to receive it, folded her in, more and more obscuring her.

A door opened at the far end of the room, letting in a patch of hall light
and a dark figure coming into silhouette against it.

"You there?"

She sprang up.

"Yes, Harry--yes."

"Good Lord! sitting in the dark again!" He turned a wall key, three
pink-shaded lamps, a cluster of pink-glass grapes, and a center bowl of
alabaster flashing up the familiar spectacle of Louis Fourteenth and the
interior decorator's turpitude; a deep-pink brocade divan backed up by a
Circassian-walnut table with curly legs; a maze of smaller tables; a
marble Psyche holding out the cluster of pink grapes; a gilt grand piano,
festooned in rosebuds. Around through these Mr. Ross walked quickly,
winding his hands, rubbing them.

"Well, here I am!"

"Had your supper--dinner, Harry?"

"No. What's the idea calling me off when I got a business dinner on hand?
What's the hurry call this time? I have to get back to it."

She clasped her hands to her bare throat, swallowing with effort.

"I--Harry--I--"

"You've got to stop this kind of thing, Millie, getting nervous spells like
all the other women do the minute they get ten cents in their pocket. I
ain't got the time for it--that's all there is to it."

"I can't help it, Harry. I think I must be going crazy. I can't stop
myself. All of a sudden everything comes over me. I think I must be going
crazy."

Her voice jerked up to an off pitch, and he flung himself down on the
deep-cushioned couch, his stiff expanse of dress shirt bulging and
straining at the studs. A bit redder and stouter, too, he was constantly
rearing his chin away from the chafing edge of his collar.

"O Lord!" he said. "I guess I'm let in for some cutting-up again! Well,
fire awa
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Michael Lockey and PG Distributed Proofreaders

[Illustration: He smashed down upon me again, and made that hole in my
leg above the knee. I handled my knife in a hurry, and made more than
one hole in his skin, while he stuck a prong through my arm.]

WILD NORTHERN SCENES.

OR

SPORTING ADVENTURES

WITH

THE RIFLE AND THE ROD.

BY S. H. HAMMOND.

1857

TO JOHN H. REYNOLDS, ESQ., OF ALBANY.

You have floated over the beautiful lakes and along the pleasant
rivers of that broad wilderness lying between the majestic St.
Lawrence and Lake Champlain. You have, in seasons of relaxation from
the labors of a profession in which you have achieved such enviable
distinction, indulged in the sports pertaining to that wild region.
You have listened to the glad music of the woods when the morning was
young, and to the solemn night voices of the forest when darkness
enshrouded the earth. You are, therefore, familiar with the scenery
described in the following pages.

Permit me, then, to dedicate this book to you, not because of your
eminence as a lawyer, nor yet on account of your distinguished
position as a citizen, but as a keen, intelligent sportsman, one who
loves nature in her primeval wildness, and who is at home, with a
rifle and rod, in the old woods.

With sentiments of great respect,

I remain your friend and servant,

THE AUTHOR.

INTRODUCTORY.

There is a broad sweep of country lying between the St. Lawrence and
Lake Champlain, which civilization with its improvements and its rush
of progress has not yet invaded. It is mountainous, rocky, and for all
agricultural purposes sterile and unproductive. It is covered with
dense forests, and inhabited by the same wild things, save the red man
alone, that were there thousands of years ago. It abounds in the most
beautiful lakes that the sun or the stars ever shone upon. I have
stood upon the immense boulder that forms the head or summit of
Baldface Mountain, a lofty, isolated peak, looming thousands of feet
towards the sky, and counted upwards of twenty of these 
beautiful
lakes--sleeping in quiet beauty in their forest beds, surrounded
by primeval woods, overlooked by rugged hills, and their placid waters
glowing in the sunlight.

It is a high region, from which numerous rivers take their rise to
wander away through gorges and narrow valleys, sometimes rushing down
rapids, plunging over precipices, or moving in deep sluggish currents,
some to Ontario, some to the St. Lawrence, some to Champlain, and some
to seek the ocean, through the valley of the Hudson. The air of this
mountain region in the summer is of the purest, loaded always with the
freshness and the pleasant odors of the forest. It gives strength to
the system, weakened by labor or reduced by the corrupted and
debilitating atmosphere of the cities. It gives elasticity and
buoyancy to the mind depressed by continued toil, or the cares and
anxieties of business, and makes the blood course through the veins
with renewed vigor and recuperated vitality.

The invalid, whose health is impaired by excessive labor, but who is
yet able to exercise in the open air, will find a visit to these
beautiful lakes and pleasant rivers, and a fortnight or a month's stay
among them, vastly more efficacious in restoring strength and tone to
his system than all the remedial agencies of the most skillful
physicians. I can speak understandingly on this subject, and from
evidences furnished by my own personal experience and observation.

To the sportsman, whether of the forest or flood, who has a taste for
nature as God threw it from his hand, who loves the mountains, the old
woods, romantic lakes, and wild forest streams, this region is
peculiarly inviting. The lakes, the rivers, and the streams abound in
trout, while abundance of deer feed on the lily pads and grasses that
grow in the shallow water, or the natural meadows that line the shore.
The fish may be taken at any season, and during the months of July and
August he will find deer enough feeding along the margins of the lakes
and rivers, and easily to be come at, to satisfy any 
reasonable or
honorable sportsman. I have been within fair shooting distance of
twenty in a single afternoon while floating along one of those rivers,
and have counted upwards of forty in view at the same time, feeding
along the margin of one of the beautiful lakes hid away in the
deep forest.

The scenery I have attempted to describe--the lakes, rivers,
mountains, islands, rocks, valleys and streams, will be found as
recorded in this volume. The game will be found as I have asserted,
unless perchance an army of sportsmen may have thinned it somewhat on
the borders, or driven it deeper into the broad wilderness spoken of.
I was over a portion of that wilderness last summer, and found plenty
of trout and abundance of deer. I heard the howl of the wolf, the
scream of the panther, and the hoarse bellow of the moose, and though
I did not succeed in taking or even seeing any of these latter
animals, yet I or my companion slew a deer every day after we entered
the forest, and might have slaughtered half a dozen had we been so
disposed. Though the excursion spoken of in the following pages was
taken four years ago, yet I found, the last summer, small diminution
of the trout even in the border streams and lakes of the "Saranac and
Rackett woods."

I have visited portions of this wilderness at least once every summer
for the last ten years, and I have never yet been disappointed with my
fortnight's sport, or failed to meet with a degree of success which
abundantly satisfied me, at least. I have generally gone into the
woods weakened in body and depressed in mind. I have always come out
of them with renewed health and strength, a perfect digestion, and a
buoyant and cheerful spirit.

For myself, I have come to regard these mountains, these lakes and
streams, these old forests, and all this wild region, as my settled
summer resort, instead of the discomforts, the jam, the excitement,
and the unrest of the watering-places or the sea shore. I visit them
for their calm seclusion, their pure air, their natural cheerfulness,
the
ir transcendent beauty, their brilliant mornings, their glorious
sunsets, their quiet and repose. I visit them too, because when among
them, I can take off the armor which one is compelled to wear, and
remove the watch which one must set over himself, in the crowded
thoroughfares of life; because I can whistle, sing, shout, hurrah and
be jolly, without exciting the ridicule or provoking the contempt of
the world. In short, because I can go back to the days of old, and
think, and act, and feel like "a boy again."

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.
 A Great Institution

CHAPTER II.
 Hurrah! for the Country

CHAPTER III.
 The Departure--The Stag Hounds--The Chase--Round Lake

CHAPTER IV.
 The Doctor's Story--A Slippery Fish--A Lawsuit and a
 Compromise

CHAPTER V.
 A Frightened Animal--Trolling for Trout--The Boatman's Story
 Defence

CHAPTER VII.
 Kinks!--"Dirty Dogs"--The Barking Dog that was found Dead in
 the Yard--The Dog that Barked himself to Death

CHAPTER VIII.
 Stony Brook--A Good Time with the Trout--Rackett
 River--Tupper's Lake--A Question Asked and Answered

CHAPTER IX.
 Hunting by Torchlight--An Incompetent Judge--A New Sound in
 the Forest--Old Sangamo's Donkey

CHAPTER X.
 Grindstone Brook--Forest Sounds--A Funny Tree covered with
 Snow Flakes

CHAPTER XI.
 A Convention broken up in a Row--The Chairman ejected

CHAPTER XII.
 The First Chain of Ponds--Shooting by Turns--Sheep
 Washing--A Plunge and a Dive--A Roland for an Oliver

CHAPTER XIII.
 A Jolly Time for the Deer--Hunting on the Water by
 Daylight--Mud Lake--Funereal Scenery--A New way of
 Taking Rabbits--The <DW64> and the Merino Buck--A
 Collision

CHAPTER XIV.
 A Deer Trapped--The Result of a Combat--A Question of Mental
 Philosophy Discussed

CHAPTER XV.
 Hooking up Trout--The Left Branch--The Rapids--A Fight with
 a Buck

CHAPTER XVI.
 Round Pond--The Pile Driver--A Theory for Spiritualists

CHAPTER XVII.
 Little Tupper's Lake--A Spike Buck--A Thunder Storm in the
 Forest--The Howl of the Wolf

CHAPTER XVIII.
 An Exploring Voyage in an Alderswamp--A 
Beaver Dam--A Fair
 Shot and a Miss--Drowning a Bear--an Unpleasant
 Passenger

CHAPTER XIX.
 Spalding's Bear Story--Climbing to avoid a Collision--An
 Unexpected Meeting--A Race

CHAPTER XX.
 The Chase on the Island--The Chase on the Lake--The
 Bear--Gambling for Glory--Anecdote of Noah and the
 Gentleman who offered to Officiate as Pilot on Board
 the Ark

CHAPTER XXI.
 The Doctor and his Wife on a Fishing Excursion--The Law of
 the Case--Strong-minded Women

CHAPTER XXII.
 A Beautiful Flower--A New Lake--A Moose--His Capture--A
 Sumptuous Dinner

CHAPTER XXIII.
 The Cricket in the Wall--The Minister's Illustration--Old
 Memories

CHAPTER XXIV.
 The Accidents of Life--"Some Men Achieve Greatness, and Some
 have Greatness Thrust Upon Them"--A Slide--Rattle at
 the Top and an Icy Pool at the Bottom--A Fanciful Story

CHAPTER XXV.
 Headed Towards Home--The Martin and Sable Hunter--His
 Cabin--Autumnal Scenery

CHAPTER XXVI.
 A Surprise--A Serenade--A Visit from Strangers--An
 Invitation to Breakfast--A Fashionable Hour and a
 Bountiful Bill of Fare

CHAPTER XXVII.
 Would I were a Boy Again!

CHAPTER XXVIII.
 Headed Down Stream--Return to Tupper's Lake--The Camp on the
 Island

CHAPTER XXIX.
 A Mysterious Sound--Treed by a Moose--Angling for a Powder
 Horn--An Unheeded Warning and the Consequences

CHAPTER XXX.
 Good-bye--Floating Down the Rackett--A Black Fox--A Trick
 upon the Martin Trappers and its Consequences

CHAPTER XXXI.
 Out of the Woods--The Thousand Islands--Cape Vincent--Bass
 Fishing--Home--A Searcher after Truth--An
 Interruption--Finis

THE RIFLE AND THE ROD.

CHAPTER I.

A GREAT INSTITUTION.

"It is a great institution," I said, or rather thought aloud, one
beautiful summer morning, as my wife was dressing the baby. The little
thing lay upon its face across her lap, paddling and kicking with its
little bare arms and legs, as such little people are very apt to do,
while being dressed. It was not our baby. We have dispensed with that
luxury. And yet it was a sweet little thing, and nestled as closely
 in
our hearts as if it were our own. It was our first grandchild, the
beginning of a third generation, so that there is small danger of our
name becoming extinct. A friend of mine, who unfortunately has no
voice for song, has a most excellent wife and beautiful baby, and
cannot therefore be said to be without music at home. It is his first
descendant, and everybody knows that such are just the things of which
fathers are very apt to be proud. He was spending an evening with a
neighbor, and was asked to sing. He declined, of course, giving as a
reason that he never sang. "Why, Mr. H----," said a black-eyed little
girl, of seven--"why, Mr. H----, don't you never sing to the baby?"
Sure enough! I wonder if there ever was a civilized, a human man, who
never sang to the baby. I do not believe that there was ever such a
paradox in nature, as a man who had tossed the baby up and down,
balanced it on his hand, given it a ride on his foot, and yet never
sang to it. I do not care a fig about melody of voice, or science in
quavering; I am not talking about sweetness of tone; what I mean to
say is, that I do not believe there is a man living, even though he
have no more voice than a raven, who is human, and yet never sang to
the baby, always assuming that he has one.

"A great institution," I repeated, half in soliloquy and half to my
wife.

"What in the world are you talking about?" said Mrs. H----, as she
took a pin from her mouth, and fastened the band that encircled the
waist of the baby. The nurse was looking quietly on, quite willing
that her work should be thus taken off her hands. Will somebody tell
me, if there ever was a grandmother, especially one who became such
young, who could sit by, and see the nurse dress her first, or even
her tenth grandchild, while it was a helpless little thing, say a foot
or a foot and a half long? The nurse is so unhandy; she tumbles the
baby about so roughly, handles it so awkwardly, she will certainly
dress it too loosely, or too tight, or leave a pin that will prick it,
or some ter
rible calamity will happen. So she takes possession of the
little thing, and with a hand guided by experience and the instincts
of affection, puts its things on in a Christian and comfortable way.

"A great institution!" I repeated again.

"I do believe the man has lost his wits," remarked Mrs. H----, handing
the baby to the nurse. "Who ever heard of a baby less than three
months old being called an institution?"

"Never heard of such a thing in my life," I replied, "though a much
greater mistake might be made."

"What then, in the name of goodness, have you been talking about?"
inquired Mrs. H----.

"The COUNTRY of course," I replied.

I had just returned from a business trip to Vermont--who ever thought
that Vermont would be traversed by railroads, or that the echoes which
dwell among her precipices and mountain fastnesses, would ever wake to
the snort of the iron horse? Who ever thought that the locomotive
would go screaming and thundering along the base of the Green
Mountains, hurling its ponderous train, loaded with human freight,
along the narrow valleys above which mountain peaks hide their heads
in the clouds? How old Ethan Allen and General Stark, "Old Put," and
the other glorious names that enrich the pages of our revolutionary
history, would open their eyes in astonishment, if they could come
back from "the other side of Jordan," and sit for a little while on
their own tombstones in sight of the railroads, and see the trains as
they go rushing like a tornado along their native valleys.

I had made up my mind that morning, all at once, to go into the
country. It was a sudden resolve, but I acted upon it. Going into the
country is a very different thing from what it used to be. There is no
packing of trunks, or taking leave of friends. You take your satchel
or travelling bag, kiss your wife in a hurry at the door, and jump
aboard of the cars; the whistle sounds, the locomotive breathes
hoarsely for a moment, and you are off like a shot. In ten minutes the
suburbs are behind you; the fields and farms are 
flying to the rear;
you dash through the woods and see the trees dodging and leaping
behind and around each other, performing the dance of the witches "in
most admired confusion;" in three hours you are among the hills of
Massachusetts, the mountains of Vermont, on the borders of the
majestic Hudson, in the beautiful valley of the Mohawk, a hundred
miles from the good city of Albany, where you can tramp among the wild
or tame things of nature to your heart's content.

I had for the moment no particular place in view. What I wanted was,
to get outside of the city, among the hills, where I could see the old
woods, the streams, the mountains, and get a breath of fresh air, such
as I used to breathe. I wanted to be free and comfortable for a month;
to lay around loose in a promiscuous way among the hills, where
beautiful lakes lay sleeping in their quiet loveliness; where the
rivers flow on their everlasting course through primeval forests;
where the moose, the deer, the panther and the wolf still range, and
where the speckled trout sport in the crystal waters. I had made up my
mind to throw off the cares and anxieties of business, and visit that
great institution spread out all around us by the Almighty, to make
men healthier, wiser, better. I had resolved to go into the country.
That was a fixed fact. But where?

There stood my rifle in one corner of the room, and my fishing rods in
the other. The sight of these settled the matter. "I will go to the
North," I said.

"Go to the North!" said Mrs. H----. "Do tell me if you've got another
of your old hunting and fishing fits on you again?"

"Yes," I replied, "I've felt it coming on for a week, and I've got it
bad."

"Very well," said my wife, "if the fit is on you, there's no use in
remonstrating; your valise will be ready by the morning train." And so
the matter was settled.

But I must have a companion, somebody to talk to and with, somebody
who could appreciate the beauties of nature; who loved the old woods,
the wilderness, and all the wild things pertaining to the
m; to whom
the forests, the lakes, and tall mountains, the rivers and streams,
would recall the long past; to whom the forest songs and sounds would
bring back the memories of old, and make him "a boy again." So I
sallied out to find him. I had scarcely traversed a square, when I
met my friend, the doctor, with carpet bag in hand, on his way to
the depot.

"Whither away, my friend?" I inquired, as we shook hands.

"Into the country," he replied.

"Very well, but where?"

"Into the country," he repeated, "don't you comprehend? Into the
country, by the first train; anywhere, everywhere, all along shore."

"Go with me," said I, "for a month."

"A month! Bless your simple soul, every patient I've got will be well
in less than half that time; but let them, I'll be avenged on them
another time. But where do _you_ go?"

"To my old haunts in the North," I replied.

 "To follow the stag to his slip'ry crag,
 And to chase the bounding roe."

"But," said he, "I've no rifle."

"I've got four."

"I've no fishing rod."

"I've half a dozen at your service."

"Give me your hand," said he; "I'm with you." And so the doctor was
booked.

"Suppose," said the doctor, "we beat up Smith and Spalding, and take
them along. Smith has got one of his old fits of the hypo. He sent for
me to-day, and. I prescribed a frugal diet and the country. Wild
game, and bleeding by the musquitoes, will do him good. Spalding is
entitled to a holiday, for he's working himself into dyspepsia in this
hot weather."

"Just the thing;" I replied, and we started to find Smith and
Spalding. We found them, and it was settled that they should go with
us for a month among the mountains. Everybody knows Smith, the
good-natured, eccentric Smith; Smith the bachelor, who has an income
greatly beyond his moderate expenditures, and enough of capital to
spoil, as he says, the orphan children of his sister. By way of saving
them from being thrown upon the cold world with a fortune, he declares
he will spend every dollar of it _himself_, simply out of regard for
_them_. But
 Smith will do no such thing, and the tenderness with which
he is rearing the two beautiful, black-eyed, raven-haired little
girls, proves that he will not. But Smith has no professional calling
or business, and when his digestion troubles him, he has visions of
the alms-house, and the Potters' Field, and of two mendicant little
girls, while his endorsement would be regarded as good at the bank for
a hundred thousand dollars.

Spalding, as everybody within a hundred leagues of the capitol knows,
is a lawyer of eminence, full of good-nature, always cheerful, always
instructive; a troublesome opponent at the bar; a man of genial
sympathies and a big heart. If I have given him, as well as Smith, a
_nom de plume_, it is out of regard for their modesty. We arranged to
meet at the cars, the next morning at six, each with a rifle and
fishing rod, to be away for a month among the deer and the trout,
floating over lakes the most beautiful, and along rivers the
pleasantest that the sun ever shone upon.

CHAPTER II.

HURRAH! FOR THE COUNTRY!

Hurrah! Hurrah! We are in the country--the glorious country! Outside
of the thronged streets; away from piled up bricks and mortar; outside
of the clank of machinery; the rumbling of carriages; the roar of the
escape pipe; the scream of the steam whistle; the tramp, tramp of
moving thousands on the stone sidewalks; away from the heated
atmosphere of the city, loaded with the smoke and dust, and gasses of
furnaces, and the ten thousand manufactories of villainous smells. We
are beyond even the meadows and green fields. We are here alone with
nature, surrounded by old primeval things. Tall forest trees, mountain
and valley are on the right hand and on the left. Before us,
stretching away for miles, is a beautiful lake, its waters calm and
placid, giving back the bright heavens, the old woods, the fleecy
clouds that drift across the sky, from away down in its quiet depths.
Beyond still, are mountain ranges, whose castellated peaks stand out
in sharp and bold relief, on whose tops the beam
s of the descending
sun lie like a mantle of silver and gold. Glad voices are ringing;
sounds of merriment make the evening joyous with the music of the wild
things around us. Hark! how from away off over the water, the voice of
the loon comes clear and musical and shrill, like the sound of a
clarion; and note how it is borne about by the echoes from hill to
hill. Hark! again, to that clanking sound away up in the air; metallic
ringing, like the tones of a bell. It is the call of the cock of the
woods as he flies, rising and falling, glancing upward and downward in
his billowy flight across the lake. Hark! to that dull sound, like
blows upon some soft, hollow, half sonorous substance, slow and
measured at first, but increasing in rapidity, until it rolls like the
beat of a muffled drum, or the low growl of the far-off thunder. It is
the partridge drumming upon his log Hark! still again, to that
quavering note, resembling somewhat the voice of the tree-frog when
the storm is gathering, but not so clear and shrill. It is the call of
the raccoon, as he clambers up some old forest tree, and seats himself
among the lowest of its great limbs. Listen to the almost human
halloo, the "hoo! hohoo, hoo!" that comes out from the clustering
foliage of an ancient hemlock. It is the solemn call of the owl, as he
sits among the limbs, looking out from between the branches with his
great round grey eyes. Listen again and you will hear the voice of the
catbird, the brown thrush, the chervink, the little chickadee, the
wood robin, the blue-jay, the wood sparrow, and a hundred other
nameless birds that live and build their nests and sing among these
old woods.

But go a little nearer the lake, and you will have a concert that will
drown all these voices in its tumultuous roar. Compared to these
feeble strains, it is the crashing of Julien's hundred brazen
instruments to the soft and sweet melody of Ole Bull's violin. Come
with me to this rocky promontory; stand with me on this moss-covered
boulder, which forms the point. On either h
and is a little bay, the
head of which is hidden around among the woods. See! over against us,
on the limb of that dead fir tree, which leans out over the water, is
a bald eagle, straightening with his hooked beak the feathers of his
wings, and pausing now and then to look out over the water for some
careless duck of which to make prey. See! he has leaped from his
perch, has spread his broad pinions, and is soaring upward towards the
sky. See! how he circles round and round, mounting higher and higher
at every gyration. He is like a speck in the air. But see! he is above
the mountains now, and how like an arrow he goes, straight forward,
with no visible motion to his wings. He has laid his course for some
lake, deeper in the wilderness, beyond that range of hills, and he is
there, even while we are talking of his flight. A swift bird, the
swiftest of all the birds, is the eagle, when he takes his descending
stoop from his place away up in the sky. He cleaves the air like a
bullet, and so swift is his career that the eye can scarcely trace his
flight. But, hark! all is still now, save the piping notes of the
little peeper along the shore. Wait, however, a moment. There, hear
that venerable podunker off to the right, with his deep bass, like the
sound of a brazen serpent. Listen! another deep voice on the left has
fallen in. There, another right over against us! another and another
still! a dozen! a hundred! a thousand! ten thousand! a million of
them! close by us! far off! on the right hand and on the left! here!
there! everywhere! until above, around us, all through the woods, all
along the shore, all over the lake is a solid roar, impenetrable to
any other sound, surging and swaying, rolling and swelling as if all
the voices in the world were concentrated in one stupendous concert.

But, hark! the roar is dying away; voice after voice drops out; here
and there is one laggard in the song, still dragging out the chorus.
Now all is still again, save the note of the little peeper along the
shore. In two minutes that
 band will strike up again. The roar will go
bellowing over the lake through the woods, to be thrown from hill to
hill, to die away into silence again; and so it will be through all
the long night, and until the sun looks out from among the tree tops
in the morning. Touch that solemn looking old croaker on yonder broad
leaf of that pond lily, with the end of your fishing rod, while the
music is at the highest, he will send forth a quick discordant and
cracked cry, like that of a greedy dog choked with a bone, as he
plunges for the bottom; and note how suddenly that sound will be
repeated, and how quick the roar of the frogs will be hushed into
silence. That is a cry of alarm, a note of danger, and every frog
within hearing understands its import.

Is it asked _where_ we are? I answer, we are on the Lower Saranac
Lake, just on the south point, at the entrance of the romantic little
bay, at the head of which stands Martin's Lake House, the only human
dwelling in sight of this beautiful sheet of water. On the point where
we now are, long ago, was the log shanty of a hunter and fisherman,
surrounded by an acre or two of cleared land. But its occupant moved
deeper into the wilderness, over on the waters of the Rackett, many
years since; the log shanty has rotted away, and a vigorous growth of
brush and small timber, now covers what once may have been called
a field.

But the night shadows are beginning to gather over the forest,
throwing a sort of spectral gloom among the old woods, giving a
distorted look to the trunks of the trees, the low bushes, the turned
up roots, and the boulders scattered over the ground. See what ogre
shapes these things assume as the darkness deepens. Look at that cedar
bush, with its dense foliage! It is a crouching lion, and as its
branches wave in the gentle breeze, he seems preparing for his leap;
and yonder boulder is a huge elephant! The root that comes out from
the crevice is his trunk, and the moss and lichens which hang down on
either side are his pendant ears; and see, he has a gre
at tower on his
back, wherein is seated a warrior in his ancient armor, grasping
battle-axe and spear. Beyond, through that opening upon the bay, is a
castle looming darkly against the sky, with massive towers and
arched gateway. Such are the forms which fancy gives to these forest
things, in the doubtful twilight of a summer evening. While we have
been looking upon these unsubstantial shadows, the sunlight has left
the mountain peaks, the stars have come out in the sky, and the moon
has started on her course across the heavens.

Let us rest on our oars a moment, here in the bay, to view the scenery
around us, as seen by the mellow moonlight. So calm, so still, so
motionless are both air and water, that we seem suspended between the
sky above, sparkling and glowing with millions of bright stars, and
the moon riding gloriously on her course, and a sky beneath, sparkling
and glowing with like millions of bright stars, and the same moon, or
its counterpart, floating away down in fathomless depths below us.
See, how the same hillside, the same line of forest trees, the same
ranges and mountain peaks are reflected back from the stirless bosom
of the lake. There, above, and just on the upper line of that tall
peak, looming darkly and majestically in the distance, hangs a
brilliant star, sparkling and twinkling, like the sheen of a diamond;
and right beneath, away down just as far below the surface of the
water as mountain peak and star are above it, is another mountain peak
and bright star, twinned by the mirrored waters. See, away down the
lake, that little island with its half dozen spruce trees, clustered
together! How like a great war vessel it looks, with sails all set, as
seen by the uncertain light of the moon. And that other island, off to
the left, with the dead and barkless trees, how like a tall ship with
bare masts riding at anchor it seems. That other island, away to the
right, with its great boulders and bare rocks rising straight up out
of the water, is a fortification, a stronghold surrounded by a wall 
of
solid masonry, and bristling with cannon. We can almost see the
sentinel, and hear his measured tramp as he travels his lonely rounds,
keeping watch out over the waters. See all along the shore, as you
look up the bay towards the Lake House, how the millions of fireflies
flash their tiny torches, upward and downward, this way and that,
mingling and crossing, and gyrating and whirling--a troubled and
billowy sea of millions upon millions of glowing and sparkling gems.

Reader, were you and I gifted with the spirit of poetry, what
inspiration would we not gather from the glories which surround us, as
we float of a summer evening over these beautiful lakes, sleeping away
out here, in all their virgin loveliness, among these old primeval
things? But you ask, "what inspiration can there be in a moon and
stars, that we see every night, when the sky is cloudless; in a
desolate wilderness; the roar of the frogs; the hooting of owls; these
useless waters; the phosphorescent flash of lightning bugs; these
piled up rocks and barren mountains? Can you grow corn on these hills,
or make pastures of these rocky lowlands? Can you harness these rivers
to great waterwheels, or make reservoirs of these lakes? Can you
convert these old forests into lumber or cordwood? Can you quarry
these rocks, lay them up with mortar into houses, mills, churches,
public edifices? Can you make what you call these 'old primeval
things' utilitarian? Can you make them minister to the progress of
civilization, or coin them into dollars?"

Pshaw! You have spoiled, with your worldliness, your greed for
progress, your thirst for gain, a pleasant fancy, a glorious dream, as
if everything in the heavens, on the earth, or in the waters, were to
be measured by the dollar and cent standard, and unless reducible to a
representative of moneyed value, to be thrown, as utterly worthless,
away. Let us row back to the Lake House.

CHAPTER III.

THE DEPARTURE--THE STAG HOUNDS--THE CHASE--ROUND LAKE.

From Martin's Lake House we were to take our departure in the mo
rning.
We had arranged for three boats, and as many stalwart boatmen. Two of
these boats were for our own conveyance, and one for our luggage and
provisions; the latter to be sent forward with our tents in advance,
so as to have a home ready for us always, at our coming, when we chose
to linger by the way. These boatmen were all jolly, good-natured and
pleasant people, with a vast deal of practical sense, and a valuable
experience in woodcraft, albeit they were rough and unpolished. Their
hearts were in the right place, and they commanded our respect always
for their kindness and attention to our wants, while they maintained
at all times that sturdy independence which enters so largely into the
character of the border men of our country. Their boats are
constructed of spruce or cedar boards of a quarter of an inch in
thickness, "clap-boarded," as the expression is, upon "knees" of the
natural crook, and weigh from ninety to one hundred and ten pounds
each. They are carried around rapids, or from river to river, on the
back of the boatman in this wise: A "yoke" is provided, such as every
man in the country, especially all who have visited a "sugar bush" at
the season of sugar making, has seen. At the end of this yoke is a
round iron projection, made to fit into a socket in the upper rave of
the boat. The craft is turned bottom upwards, the yoke adjusted to the
shoulders, the iron projections fitted into the sockets, and the
boatman marches off with his boat, like a turtle with his shell upon
his back. He will carry it thus sometimes half a mile before
stopping to rest.

With us were to go two staid and sober stag hounds, grave in aspect
and trained and experienced, almost, in woodcraft, as their masters;
animals that had been reared together, and who possessed the rare
instinct of returning always to the shanty from which they started,
however far the chase may have led them. It was a glorious sound in
the old forests, the music of those two hounds, as their voices rang
out bold and free, like a bugle, and went, r
inging through the forest,
echoing among the mountains and dying away over the lakes. But of that
hereafter.

Our little fleet swung out upon the water, while the sun was yet
hanging like a great torch among the tops of the trees, on the eastern
hills. It was a beautiful morning, so fresh, so genial, so balmy. A
pleasant breeze came sweeping lazily over the lake, and went sighing
and moaning among the old forest trees. All around us were glad
voices. The partridge drummed upon his log; the squirrels chattered as
they chased each other up and down the great trunks of the trees; the
loon lifted up his clarion voice away out upon the water; the eagle
and the osprey screamed as they hovered high above us in the air,
while a thousand merry voices came from out the old woods, all
mingling in the harmony of nature's gladness. A loud and repeated
hurrah! burst from us all as our oars struck the water, and sent our
little boats bounding over the rippled surface of the beautiful
Saranac.

This is a indeed a beautiful sheet of water. The shores were lined
with a dense and unbroken forest, stretching back to the mountains
which surround it. The old wood stood then in all its primeval
grandeur, just as it grew. The axe had not harmed it, nor had fire
marred its beauty. The islands were covered with a lofty growth of
living timber clothed in the deepest green. There were not then, as
now, upon some of them, great dead trees reaching out their long bare
arms in verdureless desolation above a stinted undergrowth, and piled
up trunks charred and blackened by the fire that had revelled among
them, but all were green, and thrifty, and glorious in their robes of
beauty. Thousands of happy songsters carolled gaily among their
branches, or hid themselves in the dense foliage of their
wide-spreading arms. The islands are a marked feature of these
northern lakes, lending a peculiar charm to their quiet beauty, and
one day, when the iron horse shall go thundering through these
mountain gorges, the tourist will pause to make a record of t
heir
loveliness.

Four or five miles down the lake, is a beautiful bay, stretching for
near half a mile around a high promontory, almost reaching another bay
winding around a like promontory beyond, leaving a peninsula of five
hundred acres joined to the main land, by a narrow neck of some forty
rods in width. Our first sport among the deer was to be the "driving"
of this peninsula. We stationed ourselves on the narrow isthmus within
a few rods of each other, while a boatman went round to the opposite
side to lay on the dogs. We had been at our posts perhaps half an
hour, when we heard the measured bounds of a deer, as he came crashing
through the forest. We could see his white flag waving above the
undergrowth, as he came bounding towards us. Neither Smith nor
Spalding had ever seen a deer in his native woods, and they were, by a
previous arrangement, to have the first shot, if circumstances should
permit it. The noble animal came dashing proudly on his way, as if in
contempt of the danger he was leaving behind him. Of the greater
danger into which he was rushing, he was entirely unconscious, until
the crack of Smith's rifle broke upon his astonished ear. He was
unharmed, however, and quick as thought he wheeled and plunged back in
the direction from which he came; Spalding's rifle, as it echoed
through the forest, with the whistling of the ball in close proximity
to his head, added energy to his flight.

The rifles were scarcely reloaded when the deep baying of the hounds
was heard, and two more deer came crashing across the isthmus where we
were stationed. The foremost one went down before the doctor's
unerring rifle and cool aim, while the other ran the gauntlet of the
three other rifles, horribly frightened, but unharmed, away. The
hounds were called off, and with our game in one of the boats, we
rowed back around the promontory, and passed on towards the Saranac
River, which connects by a tortuous course of five miles, the Lower
Saranac with Round Lake.

Midway between these two lakes, is a fall, or rather 
rapids, down
which the river descends some ten feet in five or six rods through a
narrow rocky channel, around which the boats had to be carried. While
this was being done, Smith and Spalding adjusted their rods, eager to
make up in catching trout what they failed to achieve in the matter of
venison. And they succeeded. In twenty minutes they had fifteen
beautiful fish, none weighing less than half a pound, safely deposited
on the broad flat rock at the head of the rapids. "One throw more,"
said Smith, "and I've done;" and he cast his fly across the still
water just above the fall. Quick as thought it was taken by a
two-pound trout. Landing nets and gaff had been sent forward with the
baggage, and without these it was an exciting and delicate thing to
land that fish. The game was, to prevent him dashing away down the
rapids, or diving beneath the shelving rock above, the sharp edge of
which would have severed the line like a knife. Skillfully and
beautifully Smith played him for a quarter of an hour, until at last
the fish turned his orange belly to the surface, and ceased to
struggle. He was drowned.

We had in the morning directed the boatman in charge of the baggage to
go on in advance, and erect our tents on an island in Round Lake. When
we entered this beautiful sheet of water, about four o'clock, we saw
the white tents standing near the shore of the island, with a column
of smoke curling gracefully up among the tall trees that overshadowed
them. When we arrived, we found everything in order. They were pitched
in a pleasant spot, looking out to the west over the water, while
within were beds of green boughs from the spruce and fir trees, and
bundles of boughs tied up like <DW19>s for pillows. Our first dinner
in the wilderness was a pleasant one, albeit the cookery was somewhat
primitive. With fresh venison and trout, seasoned with sweet salt
pork, we got through with it uncomplainingly.

This little lake is a gem. It is, as its name purports, round, some
four miles in diameter, surrounded by an amphitheatre
 of hills,
beneath whose shadows it reposes in placid and quiet beauty. On the
northeast, Ballface Mountain rears its tall head far above the
intervening ranges, while away off in the east Mount Marcy and Mount
Seward stand out dim and shadowy against the sky. Nearer are the Keene
Ranges, ragged and lofty, their bare and rocky summits glistening in
the sunlight, while nearer still the hills rise, sometimes with steep
and ragged acclivity, and sometimes gently from the shore. Here and
there a valley winds away among the highlands, along which the
mountain streams come bounding down rapids, or moving in deep and
sluggish, but pure currents, towards the lake. The rugged and sublime,
with the placid and beautiful, in natural scenery, are magnificently
mingled in the surroundings of this little sheet of water.

CHAPTER IV.

THE DOCTOR'S STORY--A SLIPPERY FISH--A LAWSUIT AND A COMPROMISE.

There seems to be a law, or rather a habit pertaining to forest life,
into which every one falls, while upon excursions such as ours.
Stories occupy the place of books, and tales of the marvellous furnish
a substitute for the evening papers. Not that there should be any set
rule or system, in regard to the ordering of the matter, but a sort of
spontaneous movement, an implied understanding, growing out of the
necessities of the position of isolation occupied by those who are
away from the resources of civilization. The doctor had a genius for
story telling, or rather a genius for invention, which required only a
moderate development of the organ of credulity on the part of his
hearers, to render him unrivalled. There was an appearance of frank
earnestness about his manner of relating his adventures, which,
however improbable or even impossible as matter of fact they might be,
commanded, for the moment, absolute credence.

"They've a curious fish in the St. Lawrence," said the doctor, as he
knocked the ashes from his meerschaum, and refilled it, "known among
the fishermen of that river as the LAWYER. I have never seen it among
any oth
er of the waters of this country, and never there but once. It
never bites at a hook, and is taken only by gill-nets, or the seine.
Everybody," he continued, "has visited the Thousand Islands, or if
everybody has not, he had better go there at once. He will find them,
in the heat of summer, not only the coolest and most healthful
retreat, and the pleasantest scenery that the eye ever rested upon,
always excepting these beautiful lakes, but the best river fishing I
know of on this continent. He will not, to be sure, take the speckled
trout that we find in this region, but he will be among the black
bass, the pickerel, muscalunge, and striped bass, in the greatest
abundance, and ready to answer promptly any reasonable demand which he
may make upon them. Think of reeling in a twenty-pound pickerel, or a
forty-pound muscalunge, on a line three hundred feet in length,
playing him for half an hour, and landing him safely in your boat at
last! There's excitement for you worth talking about.

"I stopped over night at Cape Vincent, last summer, on my way to 'the
Thousand Islands,' on a fishing excursion of a week. I was acquainted
with an old fisherman of that place, and agreed to go out with him the
next morning, to see what luck he had with the fish. I don't think
much of that kind of fishing, though it is well enough for those who
make a business of it, for the gill-net works, as the old man said,
while the fisherman sleeps, and all he gets in that way is clear gain.

"Well, I rose early the next morning to go out with the old fisherman
to his gill-nets. It would have done you good, as it did me, to see
how merry every living thing was. The birds, how jolly they were, and
how refreshing the breeze was that came stealing over the water,
making one feel as if he would like to shout and hurrah in the
buoyancy, the brightness, and glory of the morning. But I am not going
to be poetical about the sunrise, and the singing birds. We went out
upon the river just as the sun came up with his great, round, red
face, for there was
 a light smoky haze floating above the eastern
horizon, and threw his light like a stream of crimson flame across the
water; and the meadow lark perched upon his fence stake, the blackbird
upon his alderbush, the brown thrush on the topmost spray of the wild
thorn, and the bob-o'-link, as he leaped from the meadow and poised
himself on his fluttering wings in mid air, all sent up a shout of
gladness as if hailing the god of the morning.

"We came to the nets and began to draw in. You ought to have seen the
fish. There were pickerel from four to ten pounds in weight, white
fish, black bass, rock bass, Oswego bass, and pike by the dozen; and,
what was a stranger to me, a queer looking specimen of the piscatory
tribes, half bull-head, and half eel, with a cross of the lizard.

"'What on earth is that?' said I, to the fisherman. "'That,' said he,
'is a species of ling; we call it in these parts a LAWYER'

"'A lawyer!' said I; 'why, pray?'

"'I don't know,' he replied, 'unless it's because he ain't of much
use, and is the slipriest fish that swims.'

"Mark," continued the doctor, turning to Spalding; "I mean no
personality. I am simply giving the old fisherman's words, not
my own."

"Proceed with the case," said Spalding, as he sent a column of smoke
curling upward from his lips, and with a gravity that was refreshing.

"Well," resumed the doctor, "the LAWYERS were thrown by themselves,
and one old fat fellow, weighing, perhaps, five or six pounds, fixed
his great, round, glassy eyes upon me, and opened his ugly mouth, and
I thought I heard him say, interrogatively, 'Well,' as if demanding
that the _case_ should proceed at once.

"'Well,' said I, in reply, 'what's out?'

"'What's out!' he answered; '_I'm_ out--I'm out of my element--out of
water--out of court--and in this hot, dry atmosphere, almost out of
breath. But what have I been summoned here for? I demand a copy of the
complaint.'

"'My dear sir,' said I, 'I'm not a member of the court. I don't belong
to the bar--I'm not the plaintiff--I'm not in the profession
, nor on
the bench. I'm neither sheriff, constable nor juror. I'm only a
spectator. In the Rackett Woods, among the lakes and streams of that
wild region, with a rod and fly, I'm at home with the trout, but;----'
"'Oh! ho!' he exclaimed with a chuckle, 'you're the chap I was
consulted about down near the mouth of the Rackett the other day, by a
country trout, who was on a journey to visit his relatives in the
streams of Canada. He showed me a hole in his jaw, made by your hook
at the mouth of the Bog river. I've filed a summons and complaint
against you for assault and battery, and beg to notify you of
the fact.'

"'I plead the general issue,' said I.

"'There's no such thing known to the code,' he replied.

"'I deny the fact, then,' I exclaimed.

"'That won't do,' he rejoined; "'the complaint is put in under oath,
and you must answer by affidavit, of the truth of your denial.'

"You see my dilemma. I remembered the circumstance of hooking a noble
trout at the place alleged, and as the affair has been settled, I'll
tell you how it was. At the head of Tupper's Lake, one of the most
beautiful sheets of water that the sun ever shone upon, lying alone
among the mountains, surrounded by old primeval forests, walled in by
palisadoes of rocks, and studded with islands, the Bog River enters;
this river comes down from the hills away back in the wilderness,
sometimes rushing with a roar over rocks and through gorges, sometimes
plunging down precipices, and sometimes moving with a deep and
sluggish current across a broad sweep of table land. For several miles
back of the lake, and until a few rods of the shore, it is a calm,
deep river. It then rushes down a steep, shelving rock some twenty
feet into a great rocky basin; then down again over a shelving rock in
a fall of twenty feet into another rocky basin; and then again in
another fall of twenty or thirty feet, over a steep, shelving rock,
shooting with a swift current far out into the lake. These falls
constitute a beautiful cascade, and their roar may be heard of a cal
m,
summer evening, for miles out on the placid water.

"At the foot of these falls, in the summer season, the trout
congregate; beautiful large fellows, from one to three pounds in
weight; and a fly trailed across the current, or over the eddies, just
at its outer edge, is a thing at which they are tolerably sure to
rise. Well, last summer, I was out that way among the lakes that lie
sleeping in beauty, and along the streams that flow through the old
woods, playing the savage and vagabondizing in a promiscuous way. The
river was low, and a broad rock, smooth and bare, sloping gently to
the water's edge, under which the stream whirled as it entered the
lake, and above which tall trees towered, casting over it a pleasant
shade, presented a tempting place to throw the fly. I cast over the
current, and trailed along towards the edge of the rock, when a
three-pounder rose from his place down in the deep water. He didn't
come head foremost, nor glancing upward, but rose square up to the
surface, and pausing a single instant, darted forward like an arrow
and seized the fly. Well, away he plunged with the hook in his jaw,
bending my elastic rod like a reed, the reel hissing as the line spun
away eighty or a hundred feet across the current, and far out into
the lake; but he was fast, and after struggling for a time, he
partially surrendered, and I reeled him in. Slowly, and with a sullen
struggling, he was drawn towards the shore, sometimes with his head
out of water, and sometimes diving towards the bottom. At last, he
caught sight of me, and with renewed energy he plunged away again,
clear across the current and out into the lake. But the tension of the
elastic rod working against him steadily, and always, was too much for
his strength, and again I reeled him in, struggling still, though
faintly. Slowly, but steadily, I reeled him to my hand. He was just by
the edge of the rock, almost within reach of my landing net, when,
with a last desperate effort to escape, he plunged towards the bottom,
made a dive under the rock,
 the line came against its edge, slipped
gratingly for a moment, snapped, and the fish was gone. He was a
beautiful trout, and beautifully he played. He deserved freedom on
account of the energy with which he struggled for it.

"You will see, therefore, that, as I said, I was in a dilemma. The
action against me was well brought. I could not deny the truth of the
facts charged against me in the complaint. In this position of
affairs, three alternatives presented themselves; first, a denial of
the truth of the complaint, but that involved perjury; secondly,
admission of the facts charged, but that involved conviction; and,
thirdly, a compromise, and the latter one I adopted.

"'Can't this thing be settled,' said I, to the old lawyer fish of the
St. Lawrence, 'without litigation? me and my four companions
overboard, place us in _statu quo_, and the action shall be
discontinued.'

"'Agreed,' said I, and I reached down to enter upon the performance of
my part of the contract.

"'Wait a moment,' said he, curling up his shaky tail, 'the costs--who
pays the costs?'

"'The costs!' I replied, 'each pays his own, of course.'

"'Not so fast,' he exclaimed, 'not quite so fast. You must pay the
costs, or the suit goes on.'

"There was something human in the tenacity with which that old
'lawyer' clung to the idea of costs. There he was gasping for breath,
his life depending upon the result of the negotiation, and still he
insisted upon the payment of costs as a condition of compromise."

"Probably out of regard for the interest of his client," said
Spalding, gravely; "but proceed with the case."

"'Fisherman,' said I," resumed the Doctor, "'what is the cost of these
five _lawyers_? How much for the fee simple of the lot?'

"'They ain't worth but ninepence,' he replied.

"'Good,' said I, 'here's a shilling, York currency.'

"'Agreed,' said he, and threw in a sucker, by way of change.

"'Anything more?' I asked of the old cormorant lawyer.

"'No,' he replied; 'all right--so toss us overboard, and be quick, for
my breath is gettin
g a little short.' I threw them over, one at a
time, the old fellow last, and as he slipped from my hand into the
river, he thrust his ugly face out of the water, and said, coolly,
'Good morning! When you come our way again, _drop in_.'

"'No,' said I, 'I'll _drop a line._' I remembered how I 'dropped in,'
over on Long Lake, one day, and had no inclination to drop in to the
St. Lawrence, especially when there are old lawyer fishes there to
summon me for assault and battery on a 'Shatagee trout.'"

"Doctor," said Hank Martin, one of our boatmen, who had been listening
to the Doctor's narrative, "I don't want to be considered for'ard or
sassy, but I'd like to know how much of these kinds of stories we
hired folks are obligated to believe?"

"Well," replied the Doctor, "there are three of you in all, and
between you, you must make up a reasonable case, as Spalding would
say, of faith in everything you may hear. This you may do by dividing
it up among you."

"Very good," said Martin, with imperturbable gravity; "I only wanted a
fair understanding of the matter on the start."

CHAPTER V.

A FRIGHTENED ANIMAL--TROLLING FOR TROUT--THE BOATMAN'S STORY.

We sat in front of our tents, enjoying the delightful breeze that
swept quietly over the lake, and watching the stars as they stole out
from the depths. The whippoorwill piped away in the old forests, and
the frogs bellowed like ten thousand buffaloes along the shore. The
roar of their hoarse voices went rolling over the lake, through the
old woods, and surging up against the mountains to be thrown back by
the echoes that dwell among the hills. We had knocked the ashes from
our pipes, and were about retiring to our tents for the night, when a
long wake in the water across the line of the moon's reflection,
attracted our attention. It was evidently made by some animal
swimming, and the Doctor and Martin started in pursuit. It proved to
be a deer which was apparently making its way to an island, midway
across the lake. They had no desire to slaughter it, and they
concluded 
to drive it ashore where we were. They headed it in the
proper direction, and followed the terrified animal as it swam for
life towards the island on which we were encamped. We understood their
purpose, and sat perfectly silent. The deer struck the island directly
in front of our tent, and dashed forward in wild affright, right
through the midst of us, towards the thicket in our rear, glad to be
rid of his pursuers on the water. As he bounded past us, we sprang up
and shouted, and if ever a dumb animal was astonished it was that
deer. He leaped up a dozen feet into the air, bleated out in the
extremity of his terror, and plunged madly forward, as if a whole
legion of fiends were at his tail. The stag hounds which were tied to
a sapling, by their fierce baying, added vigor to his flight. We heard
his snort at every bound across the island, and his plunge into the
lake on the other side.

In the morning we sent forward our boatman with the tents and baggage
to an island on the Upper Saranac, and coasted this pleasant little
lake. On the right, as you approach the head, is a deep bay, skirted
by a natural meadow, where the rank wild grass, and the pond lilies
that grow along the shore furnish a rich pasture for the deer. We saw
several feeding quietly like sheep, on the little plain and upon the
lily pads in the edge of the water. We paddled silently to within a
dozen rods of them, when, as they discovered us, they dashed snorting
and whistling away.

On the right of this meadow, and among the tall forest trees are
great boulders which, piled up and partly obscured by the undergrowth,
resemble from the lake the massive ruins of some ancient
fortification. We landed by a spring, which came bubbling up from
beneath one of these great moss-covered rocks, to lunch. It was a
pleasant spot, and while we sat there dozens of small birds, of the
size and general appearance of the cuckoo, save in their hooked beaks,
attracted by the scent of our cold meats, came hopping tamely about on
the lower limbs of the forest trees arou
nd us. They were called by our
boatmen, "meat hawks," and have less fear of man than any wild birds
that I have ever seen.

We crossed the carrying place of a quarter of a mile around the
rapids, in which distance the river falls some sixty feet, roaring and
tumbling down ledges and boiling in mad fury around boulders. We
entered the Upper Saranac at the hour appointed, and found our tents
pitched and a dinner of venison and trout awaiting us on the island
selected for our encampment.

As the sun sank behind the hills, the breeze died away, and the lake
lay without a ripple around as, so calm, so smooth, and still, that it
seemed to have sunk quietly to sleep in its forest bed. The fish were
jumping in every direction, and while the rest of us sat smoking our
meerchaums after dinner, or rather supper, Smith rigged his trolling
rod, and having caught half a dozen minnows, he with Martin, rowed out
upon the water to troll for the lake trout. These are a very different
fish from the speckled trout of the streams and rivers. They had none
of the golden specks of the latter, are of a darker hue, and much
larger. They are dotted with brown spots, like freckles upon the face
of a fair-skinned girl. They are shorter too, in proportion to their
weight than the speckled trout. They are caught in these lakes,
weighing from three to fifteen pounds, and instances have been known
of their attaining to the weight of five and twenty. It is an exciting
sport to take one of these large fellows on a line of two hundred and
fifty or three hundred feet in length. They play beautifully when
hooked, and it requires a good deal of coolness and skill to land them
safely in your boat. A trolling rod for these large fish should be
much stiffer, and stronger than those used for the fly, on the rivers
and streams; and the reel should be stronger and higher geared than
the common fly reel. Three hundred feet of line are necessary, for the
fish, if he is a large one, will sometimes determine upon a long
flight, and it will not do to exhaust yo
ur line in his career. In that
case, he will snap it like a pack-thread. An English bass rod is the
best, and with such, and a large triple action reel, the largest fish
of these lakes may be secured.

Smith had trolled scarcely a quarter of a mile, when his hook was
struck by a trout, and then commenced a struggle that was pleasant to
witness. No sooner had the fish discovered that the hook was in his
jaw, than away he dashed towards the middle of the lake. The rod was
bent into a semicircle, but the game was fast; with the butt firm
between his knees and his thumb pressing the reel, the sportsman gave
him a hundred and fifty feet of line, when his efforts began to relax,
and as Smith began to reel him in, a moment of dead pull, a holding
back like an obstinate mule occurred. The trout was slowly towed in
the direction of the boat. Then, as if maddened by the force which
impelled him, he dashed furiously forward, the reel answering to his
movements and the line always taught, he rose to the surface leaping
clear from the water, shaking his head furiously as if to throw loose
the fastenings from his jaw. Failing in this, down he plunged fifty
feet straight towards the bottom, making the reel hiss by his mad
efforts to escape. Still the line was taught, pressing always, towing
him towards the boat at every relaxation. At last he rose to the
surface, panting and exhausted, permitting himself to be towed almost
without an effort, to within twenty feet of his captors. When he saw
them, all his fright and all his energies too seemed to be restored,
and away he dashed, sciving through the water a hundred and fifty feet
out into the lake. But the hook was in his jaw, and he could not
escape. After half an hour of beautiful and exciting play, he
surrendered or was drowned, and Smith lifted him with his landing net,
a splendid ten-pound trout, into his boat. By this time the shadows of
twilight were gathering over the lake, and he came ashore. A proud man
was Smith, as he lifted that fish from the boat and handed it over 
to
the cook to be dressed for breakfast, and though we had seen the whole
performance from our tents, yet he gave us in glowing and graphic
detail the history of his taking that ten-pound trout.

"Captain," said Hank Wood, who had been quietly whitling out a new set
of tent pins, addressing Smith, "you had a good time of it with that
trout, but it was nothing to an adventer of mine with an old
mossy-back, on this lake, five year ago this summer."

"How was that?" inquired Smith; and we all gathered around to hear
Hank Wood's story.

"I don't know how it is," he began, as he seated himself on the log in
front of the tents, with one leg hanging down, and the other drawn up
with the heel of his boot caught on a projection in the bark, his knee
almost even with his nose, and his fingers locked across his shin, "I
don't know exactly why, but the catching of that trout makes me think
of an adventer I had on this very lake, five year ago this summer. It
is curious how things will lay around in a man's memory, every now and
then startin' up and presentin' themselves, ready to be talked
about--reeled off--as it were, and then how quietly they coil
themselves away, to lay there, till some new sight, or sound, or idea,
or feelin' stirs 'em into life, and they come up again fresh and plain
as ever. Some people talk about forgotten things, but I don't believe
that any matter that gets fairly anchored in a man's mind, can ever be
forgotten, until age has broken the power of memory. It is there, and
will stay there, in spite of the ten thousand other things that get
piled in on top of it, and some day it will come popping out like a
cork, just as good and distinct as new. But I was talkin' about an
adventer I had with a trout, five year ago, here on the Upper
Saranac. I was livin' over on the _Au Sable_ then, and came over to
these parts to spend a week or so, and lay in a store of jerked
venison and trout for the winter. I brought along a bag of salt, and
two or three kegs that would hold a hundred pound or so apiece, and
fill
ed 'em too with as beautiful orange-meated fellows as you'd see in
a day's drive. The trout were plentier than they are now. They hadn't
been fished by all the sportin' men in creation, and they had a chance
to grow to their nateral size. You wouldn't in them days row across
any of these lakes in the trollin' season without hitchin' on to an
eight, or ten, and now and then to a twenty-pounder.

"Wal, I was on the Upper Saranac, up towards the head of the lake, ten
or twelve miles from here, trollin' with an old-fashioned line, about
as big as a pipe stem, a hundred and fifty feet long, and a hook to
match. Nobody in them days tho't of sich contrivances as
trollin'-rods, reels, and minny-gangs. You held your lines in your
fingers, and when you hooked a fish, you drew him in, hand over hand,
in a human way. It was in the latter part of June, and the way the
black flies swarmed along the shore, was a thing to set anybody a
scratchin' that happened to be around. It was a clear still mornin',
and the sun as he went up into the heavens, blazed away, and as he
walked across the sky, if he didn't pour down his heat like a furnace,
I wouldn't say so. I had tolerable good luck in the forenoon, and
landed on a rocky island to cook dinner. I made such a meal as a
hungry man makes when he's out all alone fishin' and huntin' about
these waters, and started off across the lake, with my trollin' line
to the length of a hundred feet or more, draggin' through the water
behind me. The breeze had freshened a little, and my boat drifted
about fast enough for trollin', and feelin' a little drowsy, I tied
the end of the line to the cleets across the knees of the boat, and
lay down in the bottom with my hand out over the side holdin' the
line. I hadn't laid there long, when I felt a twitch as if something
mighty big was medlin' with the other end of the string. I started up
and undertook to pull in, but you might as well undertake to drag an
elephant with a thread. I couldn't move him a hair. Pretty soon the
boat began to move up the la
ke in a way I didn't at all like. At first
it went may be three miles an hour, then five, ten, twenty, forty,
sixty miles the hour, round and round the lake, as if hurled along by
a million of locomotives. We went skiving around among the islands,
into the bays, along the shore, away out across the lake, crossing and
re-crossing in every direction; and if there's a place about this lake
we didn't visit, I should like to have somebody tell me where it is.
You may think it made my hair stand out some, to find myself flyin'
about like a streak of chain lightnin', and to see the trees and rocks
flyin' like mad the other way. I tried to untie the line, but it was
drawn into a knot so hard, that the old Nick himself couldn't move it.
I looked for my knife to cut it, but it had, somehow, got overboard in
our flight, besides flyin' about at the rate of sixty mile an hour,
kept a fellow pretty busy holdin' on, keepin' his place in the boat.

"After an hour or two we came to a pause, and the old feller that was
towin' me about, walked up to the surface, and stickin' his head out
of the water, 'Good mornin',' says he, in a very perlite sort of way.
'Good mornin',' says I, back again. 'How goes it?' says he. 'All
right,' says I. 'Step this way and I'll take the hook out of your
gums.' 'Thank you for nothing,' says he, and he opened his month like
the entrance to a railroad tunnel, and blame me, if he hadn't taken a
double hitch of the line around his eye tooth, while the hook hung
harmless beside his jaw.

"'I've a little business down in the lower lake,' says he, 'and must
be movin',' and away he bolted like a steam engine, down the lake.
When he straightened up, my hat flew more than sixty yards behind me,
and the way I came down into the bottom of the boat was anything but
pleasant. Away we tore down towards the outlet, the boat cuttin' and
plowin' through the water, pilin' it up in great furrows ten feet high
on each side. There is, as you know, sixty feet fall between the Upper
Saranac and Round Lake, and the river goes
 boilin' and roarin',
tumblin' and heavin' down the rapids and over the rocks, pitchin' in
some places square down a dozen feet among the boulders. No sensible
man would think of travellin' that road in a little craft like mine,
unless he'd made up his mind to see how it would seem to be drowned,
or smashed to pieces agin the rocks. But right down the rapids we
went, swifter than an eagle in his stoop, down over the boilin'
eddies, down over the foamin' surge, down the perpendicular falls, as
if the old Nick himself was kickin' us on end. How we got down I won't
undertake to say, but when I got breath and looked out over the side
of the boat I saw the old woods and rocks along the shore below the
falls, rushin' up stream like a racehorse.

"Wal, we entered Round Lake, crossed it in five minutes, and down the
river we rushed over the little falls at a bound, and into the Lower
Saranac. I'd got a little used to it by this time, and though it was
mighty hard work to catch my breath in such a wind as we made by our
flight, yet I managed to sit up and look around me. It was curious to
see how the islands on the Lower Saranac danced about, and how the
shores ran away behind while I was looking at 'em; and how the forest
trees dodged, and whirled, and jumped about one another, as we tore
along. After tearin' about the lake a spell, we came to something like
a halt, and old Mossyback stuck his head out of water, and openin' his
great glassy eyes like the moon in a mist, 'How do you like that?'
said he, in a jeerin' sort of way. 'All right,' said I; 'go it while
you're young.' I didn't care about appearin' skeered or uneasy, but
I'd have given a couple of month's wages just then, to have been on
dry land. 'Well,' said he, 'I guess we'll be gittin' towards home.'
And away he started for the Upper Saranac, and up the river, across
Round Lake, and right up over the rapids we went. Two or three times I
made up my mind that I was a goner, as the water piled up around me
along over the falls; but somehow our very speed made our
 boat glance
upward at such times, and skim along the surface like a duck. We went
boundin' from hillock to hillock, on the mad waters, till we entered
the broad lake and went skiving about again among the islands.

"All at once he seemed to take a notion to go down towards the bottom;
so shortenin' the line some fifty foot or more, he hoisted his great
tail straight up towards the sky, and down he went, the boat standing
up on end, and somehow the waters didn't seem to close above us, so
rapid was our descent. It was tight work, as you may guess, to hold on
under such circumstances, but I managed to keep my place. How deep we
went I wont undertake to say, but this much is quite sartin, we went
down so far that I couldn't see out at the hole we went in at. There
are some mighty big fish away down in them parts, you may bet your
life on that; trout that it wouldn't be pleasant to handle.

"By-and-bye we started for daylight again. The fish had to stand out
of the way as we rushed like an express train towards the surface;
them that didn't we made a smash of. One bull head, I remember, about
twice as long as one of our boats wasn't quick enough; the bow of the
boat struck him about in the middle and cut him in two like a knife.
One old trout seemed to have made up his mind for a fight, and he
chased us more than two miles with his jaws open like a great pair of
clamps, as if he'd a mind to swallow us boat and all, and from the
size of the openin', I'm bold to say he'd a done it too, if he'd have
caught us; but as we rounded an island, he run head foremost, jam
against a rock. That kind o' stunned him, and he gave in.

"Wal, after we got to the surface, the trout that was towin' me,
seemed to let on an extra amount of steam for a mile or so, and let me
say the way we went was a caution. I've travelled on the cars in my
day, when they made every thing gee again, but that kind o' goin'
wasn't a circumstance to the way we tore along. The water rose up on
either hand more than twenty feet, and went roarin', and tumblin'
, and
hissin', as if everything was goin' to smash. All at once the line was
thrown loose, and the boat went straight ahead bows on, to one of the
small islands up towards the head of the lake, and when she struck, I
went through the air eend over eend, clear across the island, more
than fifteen rods, ca-splash into the lake on the other side.

"Human nater couldn't stand all that, so startin' up I found that
while I'd been layin' in the bottom of the boat the wind had ris, and
was blowin' a stiff gale. The boat had drifted across the lake and had
struck broadside agin the shore, and the waves were makin' a clean
breach into her at every surge. I soon got her, head on to the waves,
and feelin' something mighty lively at the other eend of the line,
hauled in a twelve-pounder."

"Pshaw!" exclaimed one of the audience; "you've only been telling a
dream, in this long yarn, we've been listening to."

"Wal," replied the narrator; "some people that I've told it to, have
suspicioned that it might be so; but every thing about it seemed so
nateral, that I'm almost ready to make my affidavy that it was sober
fact. One thing, however, I always had my doubts about: I never fully
believed, that _I was actually pitched over that island_. I've hearn
it said that when a man has eaten a hearty dinner, and goes to sleep
with the hot sun pourin' right down on him, he's apt to see and hear a
good many strange things before he wakes up. May be it was so
with me."

CHAPTER VI.

THE UPPER SARANAC--SPECTACLE PONDS--THE ACCUSATION AND THE DEFENCE--AN
OCTOGENARIAN SMOKER.

We spent the next day in rowing about the Upper Saranac, exploring its
beautiful bays and islands. We took as many trout in trolling
occasionally, as we needed for dinner and supper. It became an
established law among us, that we should kill no more game or fish
than we needed for supplies, whatever their abundance or our
temptation might be. It required some self-denial to observe this law,
but we kept it with tolerable strictness. There were times when we had
a large s
upply of both venison and fish, but there were seven men of
us in all, and we could despose of a good deal of flesh and fish in
the twenty-four hours. We had sent our boat with the luggage across
the Indian carrying place, a path of a mile through the forest, to the
Spectacle Ponds, three little lakes, from which a stream, known as
Stony Brook, rises. This stream is navigable for small boats like
ours, five miles to the Rackett River. These lakes contain from a
hundred to a hundred and fifty acres each. At the head of the Upper
Pond is a beautiful cold spring, near which, upon crossing the
carrying place, at evening, we found our tents pitched. We arrived
here about sundown, somewhat wearied with our day's excursion, and
with appetites fully equal to a plentiful supper which was soon in
readiness for us.

"You are getting me into a bad habit, spoiling my morals in a physical
sense," said Smith, addressing us as we sat after supper around our
camp-fire; "I find myself taking to the pipe out here, in these old
woods, with a relish I never have at home. It seems to agree with me
here, and I expect by the time I get back to civilization, I shall be
as great a smoker as the Doctor or Spalding. If I do, I shall have to
pay for it by indigestion and hypochondria, things that you of the fat
kine, know nothing about."

"Well," replied the Doctor, "You will only have to call on me as you
did last month, and then send for Spalding to draw your will, as you
did the next day, when you were as well as I am, excepting that kink
in your head about your going to die."

"Why, the truth is," retorted Smith, "I had made up my mind, after
twelve hours consideration, to take the medicine you left, and I
appeal to H----here, if it was after that, anything more than a
reasonable precaution to be prepared for any contingency that might
happen. Your medicines, Doctor, and the testamentary disposition of a
man's worldly effects, are very natural associations."

"Very well," said the Doctor; "you'll send for me again in a month
after our re
turn, and in that case, it may be, that the money you paid
Spalding for drawing your will, will not have been thrown away. But in
regard to the use of the pipe; I propose that we call upon Spalding,
for a legal opinion, or an argument in its favor. It's his business to
defend criminals, and I file an accusation against smoking generally,
excepting, however, from the indictments the use of the pipe, as in
some sort a necessity, on all such excursions as ours."

"I shall not undertake," said Spalding, "to enter into a labored
defence of the use of tobacco in any form. I only move for a
mitigation of punishment, and will state the circumstances upon which
I base my appeal to the clemency of the court. The exception in the
indictment, enables me to avoid the plea of necessity, which I should
have interposed, founded upon a huge forest meal, and the abundance as
well as impertinence of the musquitoes of these woods."

"I called the other day upon a venerable friend and client, who is
travelling the down hill of life quietly, and though with the present
summer he will have accomplished his three score years and ten, his
voice is as cheerful, and his heart as young, as they were decades
ago, when his manhood was in the glory and strength of its prime. I
found him sitting in his great arm-chair, smoking his accustomed pipe,
reading the evening papers. He seemed to be so calm, and happy, as the
smoke went wreathing up from his lips, that I could not for the moment
refrain from envying the calmness and repose which were visible all
around him. He has smoked his morning and evening pipe, in his quiet
way, for nearly half a century. When engaged in the active business of
life, struggling with its cares, and fighting its battles, he always
took half an hour in the morning, and as long at evening, to smoke his
pipe and read the news of the day. He scarcely ever, when at home,
under any pressure of circumstances omitted these two half hours of
repose, or as his excellent wife used to say, of 'fumigation.' She
passed to her rest
 years ago, leaving behind her the pleasant odor of
a good name, a memory cherished by all who knew her.

"Men denounce the use of tobacco, and I do not quarrel with them for
doing so. Say that it is a vile and a filthy habit; be it so, I will
not now stop to deny it. Say that it is bad for the constitution,
ruinous to the health; be it so. I will not gainsay it. Still I never
see an old man, seated in his great arm chair, with his grandchildren
playing around him, smoking his pipe and enjoying its, to him,
pleasant perfume, its soothing influences, without regarding that same
pipe as an institution which I would hardly be willing to banish
entirely from the world.

"There is a good deal of philosophy, too, in a pipe, if one will but
take the trouble to study it; great subjects for moralizing, much food
for reflection; and all this outside of the physical enjoyment, the
soothing influences of a quiet pipe, when the day is drawing to a
close, and its cares require some gentle force to banish them away. It
does not weaken the power of thought, nor stultify the brain. It
quiets the nerves, makes a man look in charity upon the world, and to
judge with a chastened lenity the shortcomings of his neighbors. It
reconciles him to his lot, and sends him to his pillow, or about his
labors, with a calm deliberate cheerfulness, very desirable to those
who come under the law that requires people to earn their bread by the
sweat of their brow.

"I said there is a good deal of philosophy in a pipe, and I repeat it.
Who can see the smoke go wreathing and curling upward from his lips in
all sorts of fantastic shapes, spreading out thinner and thinner, till
it fades away and is lost among the invisible things of the air,
without saying to himself, 'Such are the visions of youth; such the
hopes, the grand schemes of life, looming up in beautiful distinctness
before the mind's eye, growing fainter and fainter as life wears away,
and then disappearing forever. Such are the things of this life,
beautiful as they appear, unsubstantial s
hadows all.' And then, as the
fire consumes the weed, exhausting itself upon the substance which
feeds it, burning lower and lower, till it goes out for lack of
aliment, who will not be reminded of life itself? the animated form,
the body instinct with vitality, changing and changing as time sweeps
along, till the spirit that gave it vigor and comeliness, and power
and beauty, is called away, and it becomes at last mere dust and
ashes. And then again, when the pipe itself falls from the teeth, or
the table, or the mantel, or the shelf--as fall it surely will, sooner
or later--and is broken, and the fragments are thrown out of the
window, or swept out at the door, who can fail to see in this, the
type of life's closing scene? the body broken by disease and death,
carried away and hidden in the earth, to remain among the useless
rubbish of the past, to be seen no more forever? Yes, yes! there is a
great deal of philosophy in a pipe, if people will take pains to
study it.

"I have a pleasant time of it once or twice a year with an old
gentleman, living away in the country; one whom memory calls up from
the dim and shadowy twilight of my earliest recollections, as a tall
stalwart man, already the head of a family with little children around
him. Those who were then little children have grown up to be men and
women, and have drifted away upon the currents of life, themselves
fathers and mothers, with grey hairs gathering upon their heads. I
visit this venerable philosopher in his hearty and green old age,
every summer. I see him now, in my mind's eye, sitting under the
spreading branches of the trees planted by himself half a century ago,
which cast their shadows upon the pleasant lawn in front of his
dwelling--discussing politics, morals, history, religion,
philosophy--recounting anecdotes of the early settlement of the
county of which he was a pioneer; and I see how calmly and
deliberately he smokes, while he calls up old memories from the
shadowy past, discoursing wisely of the present, or speaking
prophetically of
 the future. I saw him last in July of the past year,
and he seemed to have changed in nothing. He had not grown older in
outward seeming. His heart was as warm and genial as it was long,
long ago; and cheerfulness, calm and chastened, marked as it had for
years the conversation of a man who felt that his mission in life was
accomplished. 'Why,' said he, addressing me, as a new thought seemed
to strike him, 'why, _your_ head is growing grey! I never noticed it
before. It is almost as white as mine. Well, well!' he continued, as
he tapped the thumb nail of his left hand with the inverted bowl of
his pipe, knocking the ashes from it as he spoke, 'well, well! it
won't be long until we will have smoked our last pipe. Mine, at least,
will soon be broken. But what of that? Seventy-eight years is a long
time to live in this world. I have had my share of life and of the
good pertaining to it, and shall have no right to complain when my
pipe is broken and its ashes scattered.' Such was the philosophy of an
almost Octogenarian smoker."

"I move for a suspension of sentence," said Smith, "Spalding's defence
of the weed, induces me to withdraw the indictment against it, leaving
punishment only for the excessive use of it."

The motion was carried unanimously, and by way of confirming the
decision, we all refilled our pipes and smoked till the stars looked
down in their brightness from the fathomless depths of the sky.

CHAPTER VII.

KINKS!--"DIRTY DOGS"--THE BARKING DOG THAT WAS FOUND
DEAD IN THE YARD--THE DOG THAT BARKED HIMSELF TO DEATH.

"The hallucinations of Smith," said Spalding, after we
had settled the matter of the pipes, and were enjoying a
fresh pull at the weed, "as described by the Doctor, remind
me of a slight attack of fever which I had some months ago,
and from which I recovered partly through the aid of the
Doctor's medicine, and partly through the kindness of a
young friend of mine; and of the strange 'kinks,' as you
call them, which got into my head between the fever and
the Doctor's opiates. Things were s
<|endoftext|>
- 1913***

Credit for e-text: The Library of Congress, Joshua Hutchinson, David King,
and the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team

SPALDING'S OFFICIAL ATHLETIC LIBRARY

BASEBALL GUIDE

1913

EDITED BY

JOHN B. FOSTER

PRICE 10 CENTS

PUBLISHED BY

AMERICAN SPORTS PUBLISHING CO.,
21 Warren Street, New York City.

[Advertisement]

AMERICA'S NATIONAL GAME

By A. G. SPALDING

PRICE, $2.00 NET

A book of 600 pages, profusely illustrated with over 100 full page
engravings, and having sixteen forceful cartoons by Homer C. Davenport,
the famous American artist.

The above work should have a place in every public library in this
country, as also in the libraries of public schools and private houses.

The author of "America's National Game" is conceded, always, everywhere,
and by everybody, to have the best equipment of any living writer to
treat the subject that forms the text of this remarkable volume, viz.,
the story of the origin, development and evolution of Base Ball, the
National Game of our country.

Almost from the very inception of the game until the present time--as
player, manager and magnate--Mr. Spalding has been closely identified
with its interests. Not infrequently he has been called upon in times of
emergency to prevent threatened disaster. But for him the National Game
would have been syndicated and controlled by elements whose interests
were purely selfish and personal.

The book is a veritable repository of information concerning players,
clubs and personalities connected with the game in its early days, and
is written in a most interesting style, interspersed with enlivening
anecdotes and accounts of events that have not heretofore been
published.

The response on the part of the press and the public to Mr. Spalding's
efforts to perpetuate the early history of the National Game has been
very encouraging and he is in receipt of hundreds of letters and
notices, a few of which are here given.

ROBERT ADAMSON, New York, writing from the office of Mayor Gaynor,
says:--"Seeing the Giants 
play is my principal recreation and I am
interested in reading everything I can find about the game. I especially
enjoy what you [Mr. Spalding] have written, because you stand as the
highest living authority on the game."

BARNEY DREYFUSS, owner of the Pittsburg National League club:--"It does
honor to author as well as the game. I have enjoyed reading it very
much."

WALTER CAMP, well known foot ball expert and athlete, says:--"It is
indeed a remarkable work and one that I have read with a great deal of
interest."

JOHN B. DAY, formerly President of the New York Nationals:--"Your
wonderful work will outlast all of us."

W. IRVING SNYDER, formerly of the house of Peck & Snyder:--"I have read
the book from cover to cover with great interest."

ANDREW PECK, formerly of the celebrated firm of Peck & Snyder:--"All
base ball fans should read and see how the game was conducted in early
years."

MELVILLE E. STONE, New York, General Manager Associated Press:--"I find
it full of valuable information and very interesting. I prize it very
highly."

GEORGE BARNARD, Chicago:--"Words fail to express my appreciation of the
book. It carries me back to the early days of base ball and makes me
feel like a young man again."

CHARLES W. MURPHY, President Chicago National League club:--"The book is
a very valuable work and will become a part of every base ball library
in the country."

JOHN F. MORILL, Boston, Mass., old time base ball star.--"I did not
think it possible for one to become so interested in a book on base
ball. I do not find anything in it which I can criticise."

RALPH D. PAINE, popular magazine writer and a leading authority on
college sport:--"I have been reading the book with a great deal of
interest. 'It fills a long felt want,' and you are a national benefactor
for writing it."

GEN. FRED FUNSTON, hero of the Philippine war:--"I read the book with a
great deal of pleasure and was much interested in seeing the account of
base ball among the Asiatic whalers, which I had written for Harper's
Round Table so many years
 ago."

DEWOLF HOPPER, celebrated operatic artist and comedian:--"Apart from the
splendid history of the evolution of the game, it perpetuates the
memories of the many men who so gloriously sustained it. It should be
read by every lover of the sport."

HUGH NICOL, Director of Athletics, Purdue University, Lafayette,
Ind.:--"No one that has read this book has appreciated it more than I.
Ever since I have been big enough, I have been in professional base
ball, and you can imagine how interesting the book is to me."

MRS. BRITTON, owner of the St. Louis Nationals, through her treasurer,
H.D. Seekamp, writes:--"Mrs. Britton has been very much interested in
the volume and has read with pleasure a number of chapters, gaining
valuable information as to the history of the game."

REV. CHARLES H. PARKHURST, D.D., New York:--"Although I am not very much
of a 'sport,' I nevertheless believe in sports, and just at the present
time in base ball particularly. Perhaps if all the Giants had an
opportunity to read the volume before the recent game (with the
Athletics) they might not have been so grievously outdone."

BRUCE CARTWRIGHT, son of Alexander J. Cartwright, founder of the
Knickerbocker Base Ball Club, the first organization of ball players in
existence, writing from his home at Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands,
says:--"I have read the book with great interest and it is my opinion
that no better history of base ball could have been written."

GEORGE W. FROST, San Diego, Calif.:--"You and 'Jim' White, George
Wright, Barnes, McVey, O'Rourke, etc., were little gods to us back there
in Boston in those days of '74 and '75, and I recall how indignant we
were when you 'threw us down' for the Chicago contract. The book is
splendid. I treasure it greatly."

A.J. REACH, Philadelphia, old time professional expert:--"It certainly
is an interesting revelation of the national game from the time, years
before it was so dignified, up to the present. Those who have played the
game, or taken an interest in it in the past, those at present engage
d
in it, together with all who are to engage in it, have a rare treat in
store."

DR. LUTHER H. GULICK, Russell Sage Foundation:--"Mr. Spalding has been
the largest factor in guiding the development of the game and thus
deserves to rank with other great men of the country who have
contributed to its success. It would have added to the interest of the
book if Mr. Spalding could have given us more of his own personal
experiences, hopes and ambitions in connection with the game."

_Pittsburg Press_:--"Historical incidents abound and the book is an
excellent authority on the famous sport."

_Philadelphia Telegraph_:--"In this book Mr. Spalding has written the
most complete and authoritative story of base ball yet published."

_New York Herald_:--"If there is anyone in the country competent to
write a book on base ball it is A.G. Spalding who has been interested in
the game from its early beginnings."

I.E. Sanborn, Chicago _Tribune_:--"'America's National Game' has been
added to the _Tribune's_ sporting reference library as an invaluable
contribution to the literature of the national pastime."

O.C. Reichard, Chicago _Daily News_:--"It is cleverly written and
presents information and dates of great value to the newspaper man of
to-day!"

George C. Rice, Chicago _Journal_:--"I have read the book through, and
take pleasure in stating that it is a complete history of the game from
the beginning until the present time."

Sherman R. Duffy, Sporting Editor _Chicago Journal_:--"It is a most
interesting work and one for which there was need. It is the most
valuable addition to base ball literature that has yet been put out."

Joseph H. Vila, New York _Sun_:--"I have read it carefully and with much
interest. It is the best piece of base ball literature I have ever seen,
and I congratulate you on the work."

Tim Murnane, Sporting Editor _Boston Globe_:--"You have given to the
world a book of inestimable value, a classic in American history; a book
that should be highly prized in every home library in the country."

Francis C. 
Richter, Editor _Sporting Life_, Philadelphia:--"From a
purely literary standpoint, your work is to me amazing. Frankly, I would
not change a line, for the reason that the story is told in a way to
grip the reader and hold his interest continually."

_Los Angeles Times_ (editorial):--"Spalding's book has been out six
months and ninety thousand copies have been sold. We understand there
will be other editions. America has taken base ball seriously for at
last two generations, and it is time enough that the fad was given an
adequate text book."

Caspar Whitney, Editor _Outdoor America_, and one of the leading
authorities in the world on sport:--"You have made an invaluable
contribution to the literature of the game, and one none else could have
made. Moreover, you've done some very interesting writing, which is a
distinct novelty in such books--too often dull and uninteresting."

_New York World_:--"Albert G. Spalding, who really grew up with the
sport, has written 'America's National Game,' which he describes as not
a history, but the simple story of the game as he has come to know it.
His book, therefore, is full of living interest. It is a volume
generously illustrated and abounds in personal memories of base ball in
the making."

_New York Sun_:--"There is a mass of interesting information regarding
base ball, as might be expected, in Mr. Spalding's 'America's National
Game.' It is safe to say that before Spalding there was no base ball.
The book is no record of games and players, but it is historical in a
broader sense, and the author is able to give his personal decisive
testimony about many disputed points."

_Evening Telegram_, New York:--"In clear, concise, entertaining,
narrative style, Albert G. Spalding has contributed in many respects the
most interesting work pertaining to base ball, the national game, which
has been written.

"There is so much in it of interest that the temptation not to put it
down until it is completed is strong within the mind of every person who
begins to read it. As a historical
 record it is one of those volumes
which will go further to straighten some disputed points than all of the
arguments which could be advanced in good natured disputes which might
last for months."

_Providence_ (R. I.) _Tribune_:--"The pictures of old time teams players
and magnates of a bygone era will interest every lover of the game, and
no doubt start many discussions and recollections among the old timers."

_New York Evening Mail_:--"Were it possible to assemble the grand army
of base ball fans in convention, their first act probably would be to
pass a vote of thanks to Mr. A.G. Spalding for his work 'America's
National Game'."

_Columbus_ (Ohio) _Dispatch_:--"Never before has been put in print so
much of authentic record of this distinctly national game, and it will
be long, if ever, until so thoroughly interesting and useful a volume is
published to cover the same field."

_New Orleans Picayune_:--"The pictures of old time teams, players and
magnates of a bygone era will interest every lover of the game. Homer
Davenport, America's great cartoonist, has contributed drawings in his
inimitable style of various phases of the game."

_Indianapolis Star_:--"From cover to cover, the 542 pages are filled
with material for 'fanning bees,' which the average 'fan' never before
encountered. It is an interesting volume for anyone who follows the
national pastime and a valuable addition to any library."

_Buffalo News_:--"No book on base ball has ever been written that is
superior to this one by A.G. Spalding. The book is admirably written,
yet without any frills. Many of the more notable incidents recounted in
this book are having wide publication by themselves."

_Brooklyn Times_:--"The book is practically a compendium of the salient
incidents in the evolution of professional base ball. Mr. Spalding is
pre-eminently fitted to perform this service, his connection with the
game having been contemporaneous with its development, as player, club
owner and league director."

_Washington_ (D. C.) _Star_:--"This work appeals
 with peculiar force to
the public. Mr. Spalding's name is almost synonymous with base ball. He
has worked to the end of producing a volume which tells the story of the
game vividly and accurately. Taken altogether, this is a most valuable
and entertaining work."

_New York American_:--"One of the best selling books of the season has
been 'America's National Game,' by A.G. Spalding. The first edition of
five thousand copies has been sold out (in two months) and a second
edition of five thousand is now on the press. As a Christmas gift from
father to son, it is most appropriate."

_Cincinnati Enquirer_:--"As a veteran of the diamond, well qualified to
do so, Mr. Spalding has committed to print a professional's version of
the distinctly American game. This well known base ball celebrity has a
store of familiar anecdotes embracing the entire period of the game as
now played and the reader will find it most interesting."

_Teacher and Home, New York_:--"Every live father of a live boy will
want to buy this book. It is said of some of the 'best sellers' that
they hold one to the end. This book holds the reader with its anecdote,
its history, its pictures; but it will have no end; for no home--no
American home--will be complete hereafter without it."

_Buffalo Times_:--"A.G. Spalding, with whose name every American boy is
familiar, has been prevailed upon to commit to print events which were
instrumental in guiding the destinies of the National League during the
trying period of its early days. To write upon base ball in a historical
manner, and yet not fall into the habit of quoting interminable
statistics, is a feat that few could accomplish."

_Cincinnati Times-Star_:--"'America's National Game,' A.G. Spalding's
great book upon the diamond sport, is now upon the market and receiving
well merited attention. It tells the story as Mr. Spalding saw it, and
no man has been in position to see more. When 'Al' Spalding, the sinewy
pitcher of nearly forty years ago, came into the arena, the game was
young, and through all th
e changing seasons that have seen it mature
into full bloom, its closest watcher and strongest friend has been the
same 'Al' Spalding."

_Cincinnati Time-Star_:--"The book is at once a history, a cyclopaedia
and a most entertaining volume."

_New York American_:--"'America's National Game' tells for the first
time the history of the national game of base ball."

_Portland Oregonian_:--"The book is of rare interest and has such
personal value in the story line that one hardly knows where to begin in
making quotations from it--all the stories told are so admirable."

JOHN T. NICHOLSON, Principal Public School 186, New York:--"It's a great
book."

REV. W.A. SUNDAY, Evangelist:--"No one in America is better qualified to
talk of base ball, from its inception to its present greatness, than
A.G. Spalding."

WM. L. VEECK and ED. W. SMITH, of the Chicago _American_:--"We have
found much enjoyment in reading the book, and it is very valuable in our
work."

W.H. CONANT, Gossamer Rubber Co., Boston, Mass.:--"I have read the book
with great pleasure and it produced a vivid reminiscence of the striking
events in base ball, so full of interest to all lovers of the game."

JOSEPH B. MACCABE, Editor East Boston (Mass.) _Argus-Advocate_, and
ex-President Amateur Athletic Union:--"I want to express my gratitude,
as a humble follower of manly sport, for the compilation of this
historic work."

JOHN A. LOWELL, President John A. Lowell Bank Note Company, Boston,
Mass.:--"I have read the book with great interest and it certainly is a
valuable compilation of facts relating to the history of base ball, the
great national game of America. I prize it very highly."

WM. F. GARCELON, Harvard Athletic Association, Cambridge, Mass.:--"I
think 'America's National Game' is not only intensely interesting but
most valuable, as giving the history of the game. Better still, my nine
year old boy is looking forward to the time when he can get it away from
me."

GUSTAV T. KIRBY, President of the Amateur Athletic Union:--"Not only as
a historical sketch
 of this great national game, but also as a technical
dissertation on base ball as it was and is, this book will not only be
of interest but of benefit to all of us Americans who are interested in
sport--and what American is not interested in sport?--and being
interested in sport, chiefly in base ball."

EVERETT C. BROWN, Chicago, ex-president of the Amateur Athletic Union of
the United States:--"It is very seldom that any history of any sport or
anything pertaining to athletics approaches the interest with which one
reads a popular work of fiction, but I can truthfully say that I have
read the story of the great national game with as much interest as I
have read any recent work of fiction."

THOMAS F. GRAHAM, Judge Superior Court, San Francisco:--"'America's
National Game' contains matter on the origin and development of base
ball--the greatest game ever devised by man--that will be of the utmost
interest to the base ball loving people, not only of this, but of every
English speaking country; and I am sure it will perpetuate the name of
A.G. Spalding to the end of time."

SPALDING'S OFFICIAL ATHLETIC LIBRARY

SPALDING'S OFFICIAL BASE BALL GUIDE

Thirty-seventh Year

1913

EDITED BY

JOHN B. FOSTER

AMERICAN SPORTS PUBLISHING COMPANY
21 Warren Street, New York

CONTENTS

A Remarkable Base Ball Tournament

A World's Series Problem

American League Averages, Official

American League Season of 1912

Base Ball Writers of the South

Base Ball Worth While?

Base Ball Playing Rules, Official
 Index to Playing
 Ready Reference Index to

Base Ball Playing Rules, Spalding's Simplified--
 Ball
 Ball Ground
 Balls, Providing
 Balls, Soiling
 Base Running Rules
 Bat, Regulation
 Batting Rules
 Benches, Players
 Coaching Rules
 Definitions, General
 Field for Play, Fitness of
 Field Rules
 Game, Regulation
 Gloves and Mitts, Regulation
 Ground Rules
 Innings, Choice of
 Players, Numbers and Position of
 Players, Substitute
 Pitching Rules
 Scoring Rules
 Scoring of Runs
 Umpires' Authority
 Umpires' Duties
 Uniforms

Club Ros
ters of 1912, Official

Diagram, Correct, of a Ball Field

Editorial Comment

Elementary School Base Ball Tournament

Introduction

John Tomlinson Brush

National League Season of 1912

National League Averages, Official

National Association of Professional Base Ball Leagues--
 American Association
 Appalachian League
 Blue Grass League
 Border League
 Canadian League
 Central Association
 Central Kansas League
 Central League
 Cotton States League
 Eastern Association
 Illinois-Missouri League
 Indiana-Illinois-Iowa League
 International League
 Kentucky-Ind.-Tenn. League
 Michigan State League
 "Mink" League
 New York State League
 New England League
 Nebraska State League
 North Carolina League
 Northwestern League
 Ohio and Pennsylvania League
 Ohio State League
 Pacific Coast League
 South Atlantic League
 Southeastern League
 Southern Association
 Southern Michigan Association
 Texas League
 Tri-State League
 Union Association
 Virginia League
 Western Canada League
 Western League

New Faces in the Old League

Notes

Schedules--
 American League
 International League
 National League
 Northwestern League
 Southern Michigan
 Texas League

The Spalding Base Ball Hall of Fame

The World's Series of 1912

The Umpires

NOTICE--To give adequate representation to College and School Base Ball
Teams, which heretofore has not been possible in the Guide owing to lack
of room, "Spalding's Official Collegiate Base Ball Annual" will be
issued in February. It will contain complete college records, pictures
and information exclusively pertaining to College Base Ball. Price 10
cents.

INTRODUCTION

In preparing this issue of SPALDING'S OFFICIAL BASE BALL GUIDE for the
season of 1913, it has occurred to the Editor that the season of 1912,
and the period which followed its completion, have been filled, with a
great deal of unusual and uncommon vicissitude.

In the first place the personnel of the National League, the oldest Base
Ball organization in the world, has been greatly changed by reason of
death and purchase of one 
franchise. New owners have brought new faces
into the game, and when the National League starts on this year's
campaign there will be some younger but equally as ambitious men at the
heads of some of the clubs.

The players have effected an organization. That, too, is an incident of
interest, for it is well within the memory of the Base Ball "fans" of
this day what happened when another organization was perfected in the
past. For this organization it may be said that the members promise that
it will be their object to bring about better deportment on the part of
their own associates and that they will work their best for the
advancement of Base Ball from a professional standpoint. If they do this
they will be of benefit to the sport. If they work from selfish motives
it is inevitable that eventually there will be a clash, as there was in
the past.

The last world's series which was played was the greatest special series
of games which has been played in the history of the national pastime.
There may have been single games and there may have been series which
have attracted their full measure of interest from the Base Ball "fans,"
but there never has been a special series so filled with thrills and
excitement as that between the New York and Boston clubs. The GUIDE this
year enters into the subject thoroughly with photographs and a story of
the games and feels that the readers will enjoy the account of the
contests.

Some innovations have been attempted in this number of the GUIDE which
should interest Base Ball readers. Attention is called to the symposium
by prominent Base Ball writers which brings up a subject of interest in
regard to future world's series. There are other special articles,
including something about the Base Ball writers of the South, who have
decided to organize a chapter of their own.

The year 1912 was one of progress and advancement on the part of Base
Ball throughout the world. To-day it not only is stronger than ever as
America's national game but it is making fast progress in other
count
ries because of the attractiveness of the pastime.

The Editor of the GUIDE wishes its thousands of readers an even more
enjoyable Base Ball year in 1913 than they had in 1912. This publication
is now one of worldwide circulation, and carries the gospel of Base
Ball, not only across the Atlantic ocean, but across the Pacific ocean
as well. One of these days it may be its province to report a series for
the international championship, and then Base Ball will have become the
universal game of the world, a place toward which it is rapidly tending.

THE EDITOR.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

BY JOHN B. FOSTER.

PROGRESS OF AMERICA'S NATIONAL GAME

Two more nations have been conquered by the national game of the United
States; a whole race has succumbed to the fascinations of the greatest
of all outdoor sports. Both France and Sweden have announced their
intention of organizing Base Ball leagues. That of Sweden is well under
way. Indeed, they have a club in Stockholm and there are more to follow,
while the French, who have gradually been awakening to the joys of
athletic pastime in which they have hitherto chosen to participate in
other ways, hope to have a new league by the expiration of the present
summer.

There is no doubt as to their intention to play Base Ball. They are
making efforts to procure suitable players from the United States to
coach them and the French promoters of the sport are determined that
their young men shall be given every opportunity to take advantage of
the game of which they have heard so much, and have seen so little.

Last year in the GUIDE it was the pleasure of the editor to call
attention to the fact that the Japanese had so thoroughly grasped Base
Ball that they were bent on some day playing an American team for the
international championship. It is not probable that such a series will
take place within the next five years, but not improbable that it will
take place within the next decade. When the Japanese learn to bat
better, and with more effect, they will become more dangerous rivals to
the 
peace of mind of the American players. They have grasped the general
theory of the game amazingly well, and they field well, but they have
yet to develop some of those good old fashioned "clean up" hitters in
which the "fans" of the United States revel.

This season it comes to the attention of the editor of the GUIDE that
more progress has been made in China in regard to Base Ball than in any
fifty years preceding. True, there was not much Base Ball in the fifty
years preceding, but now there is. There is a league at Hong Kong. There
are Base Ball teams at Shanghai and other cities.

Dr. Eliot, former president of Harvard, who recently returned from a
trip around the world, holds that Base Ball has done more to humanize
and civilize the Chinese than any influence which has been introduced by
foreigners, basing his statement on the fact that the introduction of
the sport among the younger Chinese has exerted a tremendous restraint
upon their gambling propensities.

It is a rather queer fact that where the civilizations are older in the
countries of the Occident there is a greater tendency to gamble,
especially among the young, than there is in the newer America.
Doubtless this is largely due to the lack of athletic pastime. The young
of those countries know little or nothing about simple amusements which
are so popular in the United States, and acquire from their elders their
knowledge of betting and taking part in games of chance, two evils which
unquestionably have done much to degrade the race as a whole.

Base Ball has caught the fancy of the younger generation and the boys.
Once they get a ball and a bat in their hands they are better satisfied
with them than with all the gambling devices which have been bequeathed
to them by a long and eminent line of forefathers.

So it would appear that the introduction of the national game of the
United States into China is likely to exert a humanizing influence which
shall go further than legislation or sword, and if only the missionaries
had grasped earlier the wishes 
and the tendency of the younger element
of the Chinese population, the country might be further along than it is
with its progressive movement.

In the Philippine Islands the younger generation simply has gone wild
over Base Ball. Progress has been noted in the GUIDE from time to time
of the increase of interest but it is now at such a pitch that the boys
of the islands, wherever Base Ball has been introduced, simply have
deserted everything for it. They will play nothing else. The cockfights
and the gambling games, which were also a part of the amusement of the
younger men, have been given up. The little fellows who wear not much
more than a breechclout play Base Ball. They have picked up many of the
American terms and one of the most amusing of experiences is to stand
outside the walls of old Manila and hear the little brown boys call:
"Shoot it over. Line it out," and the like, returning to their native
language, and jabbering excitedly in Filipino whenever they arrive at
some point of play in which their command of English fails them.

Twenty years from now a league including cities of the Philippines,
China and Japan, is by no means out of the question, and it may be that
the introduction of Base Ball into all three countries will result in a
better understanding between the peoples and perhaps bring all three
races to a better frame of mind as relates to their personal ambitions
and rivalries.

In connection with the widespread influence which Base Ball is having on
both sides of the world, on the shores of the Pacific Ocean and on those
of the Atlantic Ocean the editor would like to call attention to the
theory which has been advanced by Mr. A.G. Spalding, the founder of the
GUIDE, as to the efficacy of Base Ball for the purpose of training
athletes, that has a worldwide application.

Mr. Spalding contends that Base Ball has lent no small assistance to the
athletes of the United States in helping them to win premier honors at
the Olympic Games since their reintroduction. Mr. Spalding was the first
American
 Commissioner to the Olympic Games appointed to that post, the
honor being conferred upon him in 1900, when the late President McKinley
gave him his commission to represent the United States at Paris in 1900.
Mr. Spalding, with his analytical mind has reasoned out a theory which
is undoubtedly of great accuracy, and which is further corroborated by
an interview given out in London--strangely enough on the same day that
Mr. Spalding gave utterance to his ideas in Los Angeles--by Mr. J.E.
Sullivan, American Commissioner to the Olympic Games at Stockholm last
year, while returning to the United States after witnessing the triumphs
of the Americans. Mr. Spalding said:

"I cannot say that I am at all surprised at the result at Stockholm.
History has been repeating itself in this way ever since the celebration
of the Olympic games was inaugurated at Athens. America won the victory
there in 1896; she triumphed again at Paris in 1900; our athletes
defeated the contestants at St. Louis in 1904; the victory was ours at
London in 1908, and it was a foregone conclusion that we would win at
Stockholm.

"But there is food for thought in this uninterrupted succession of
triumphs. Why do our athletes always win? All other things being equal,
the contestants in the country holding the event should naturally come
to the front. Their numbers are always greater than those from any other
country and the home grounds influence is strong. However, that
advantage has not in any case prevented American success.

"Therefore there must be a cause. What is it? Measured by scale and
tape, our athlete's are not so much superior as a class. The theory of
'more beef' must be discarded. We may not lay claim to having all the
best trainers of the world. We must look to some other source for
American prowess.

"I may be a prejudiced judge, but I believe the whole secret of these
continued successes is to be found to the kind of training that comes
with the playing of America's national game, and our competitors in
other lands may never hope to rea
ch the standard of American athletes
until they learn this lesson and adopt our pastime.

"The question, 'When should the training of a child begin?' has been
wisely answered by the statement that it should antedate his birth. The
training of Base Ball may not go back quite that far, but it approaches
the time as nearly as practicable, for America starts training of future
Olympian winners very early in life. Youngsters not yet big enough to
attend school begin quickening their eyesight and sharpening their wits
and strengthening their hands and arms and legs by playing on base ball
fields ready at hand in the meadows of farms, the commons of villages
and the parks of cities all over the land. Base ball combines running,
jumping, throwing and everything that constitutes the athletic events of
the Olympian games. But above all, it imparts to the player that degree
of confidence in competition, that indefinable something that enables
one athlete to win over another who may be his physical equal but who is
lacking the American spirit begotten of base ball.

"An analysis of the 1912 Olympian games shows that the American showed
to best advantage in contests where the stress of competition was
hardest. In the dashes they were supreme; in the hurdles they were in a
class by themselves, and in the high jump and pole vault there was no
one worthy of their steel. Whenever quick thinking and acting was
required, an American was in front. Does not this fact prove that the
American game of base ball enables the player to determine in the
fraction of a second what to do to defeat his contestant?"

 * * * * *

WHAT A SEASON OF BASE BALL COSTS

It may not be out of place to say a few words in regard to the greatly
increased cost of Base Ball. There are some sensational writers whose
hobby is to inform the public about the great receipts in Base Ball.
Usually they exaggerate from twenty-five to thirty-five per cent.

Now as to the expense of Base Ball. Figures at an approximate for the
National League will be offered. Railroad e
xpenses for mileage alone
$300,000, including spring training trips. Hotel bills $65,000. Sleeping
cars and meals en route, $80,000. Salaries to players, $480,000. Total,
$875,000. Add to this $30,000 for the salaries of umpires and their
traveling expenses. That makes $905,000.

Now not a penny has been appropriated thus far for the salaries of the
president of the National League, the secretary and expenditures of the
office nor for the salaries of the business departments of the various
clubs, nor for ground rents, taxes and a dozen and one other things, to
say nothing of that well-known old item "wear and tear."

The receipts of Base Ball barely cover these expenditures. The alleged
profits of Base Ball mostly are fanciful dreams of those who know
nothing of the practical side of the sport and are stunned when they are
made acquainted with the real financial problems which confront club
owners.

But the money that is contributed to the support of the game almost
immediately finds its way back into public channels. Less than thirty
per cent. of Base Ball clubs realize what a business man would call a
fair return on the amount invested.

A well-known writer on economic topics interviewed owners of Base Ball
clubs as to their income and outgo. One of the best known of the
National League men took the writer into his office and spread the cash
book of the club's business before him.

"You may go through it if you wish," said the owner, "but here is the
balance for the last day of the year."

It read as follows: Receipts, $250,505; expenditures, $246,447.

"That's answer enough for me," said the writer. "I am through with any
more essays on the affluence of Base Ball 'magnates.' I think it would
be better to extend them the hand of charity than the mailed fist."

 * * * * *

THE NEW ORGANIZATION OF PLAYERS

The formation of an organization on the part of the major league ball
players during the closing days of the season of 1912 was looked upon
with some misgivings by those who remember only too well what happened

when a prior organization of ball players was formed.

In the present instance those foremost in perfecting the organization
have also been foremost in asserting that the players' organization's
principal aim is to co-operate with the club owners.

If this object is followed with fidelity and to its ultimate conclusion
there is no necessity to fear any grave disturbances, but there is a
dread--that dread which is the fear of the child that has had its hands
burned by the flame, that a selfish coterie of players might obtain
control of the organization, set up a policy of unscrupulous defiance
and destructive opposition and <DW44> for a moment the higher
development of the game.

There is no organization, either of unscrupulous Base Ball players or
unscrupulous club owners, which will ever find it possible to destroy
organized Base Ball. The results that organized Base Ball have brought
about will never be annihilated although grave injury could be
temporarily wrought by a force defiant to tie unusual demands made by
the sport to perpetuate itself successfully.

It is simply out of the question to control Base Ball as one would
control the affairs of a department store. Base Ball has its commercial
side, but its commercial side cannot maintain it with success. There
must be a predominant factor based upon the encouragement that brings
forth admiration for a high class sport. This factor can only be
fostered by the ability to maintain not one, but a group of high class
teams.

Any ball player imbued with the idea that the "stars" should be grouped
together in the city best able to pay the highest salaries simply is an
enemy to his career and to those of his fellow players.

Without some handicap to assist in the equalizing of the strength of
Base Ball nines of the professional leagues there will be no prosperity
for the leagues or the clubs individually. No better evidence may be
cited to prove this than the fact, repeatedly demonstrated that in the
smaller leagues Base Ball enthusiasts in the city best able to pa
y the
largest salaries frequently withdraw their support of the team because
"it wins all the time."

To-day Base Ball, in its professional atmosphere, is nearer an ideal
sport, a better managed sport, and a more fairly and equitably adjusted
sport, than it ever has been, which is manifest proof of its superior
evolution. Had results been otherwise it would have retrograded and
possibly passed out of existence. Carefully comparing its management
with that of all other sports in history the Editor of the GUIDE
believes that it is the best managed sport in the world.

It is true that improvements can be made. It is evident that there are
still commercialized owners not over capitalized with a spirit of sport.
It is undeniable that there are ball players not imbued with a high tone
of the obligations, which they owe to their employers and to the public,
but it is as certain as the existence of the game that progress has been
made, and that it has not ceased to move forward.

For that reason players and owners must be guided by a sense of lofty
ideals and not be led astray by foolish outbursts over trivial
differences of opinion, easily to be adjusted by the exercise of a
little common sense.

 * * * * *

BASE BALL PLAYED IN SWEDEN

In connection with the subject of "Base Ball For All the World," for
which the GUIDE expounds and spreads the gospel, the Editor would submit
a very interesting letter received by him from Sweden. it reads as
follows:

Westeras, Sweden, Sept. 14, 1912.

To the Editor of the GUIDE:

We hereby have the pleasure of sending you two copies of the rules,
translated and issued by the Westeras Base Ball Club, into Swedish from
the Spalding Base Ball Guide.

The work of getting the book out has been somewhat slow on account of
that the work of translating, proofreading, etc., all had to be done on
our spare time, but it is done now, and I think we have succeeded pretty
well, everything considered. The books will be distributed by a
well-known book firm, Bjork & Boyeson, Stockholm, and will soon be

available in all the bookstores in Sweden.

We got some advance copies out just in time for the Olympic Games, and I
had the pleasure of presenting some copies to Commissioner Col.
Thompson, Manager Halpin and others of the American Olympic Committee.

As you know, so did we have a game of Base Ball at Stockholm with one of
the Finland teams, and as it may be of some interest to you to know the
preliminaries to the game, I am writing to relate how it happened.

In trying to arrange for some amusements in the evenings at the Stadium,
the Olympic Committee wrote us if we would be willing to take part in a
game of Base Ball at Stadium some evening during the Stadium week. As
our club this year was in poor condition, on account of some of our best
players being out on military duties, we hesitated at first, but then
decided to risk it, knowing very well that whoever we would play
against, they would not rub in to us too hard. We pointed out to the
Olympic Committee that it would not be very hard to get a team of Base
Ball players picked out from the American athletes taking part in the
contests, but as they would not be prepared for Base Ball, suits and
other needed articles had to be provided for. We were then told to get
necessary things ordered, and so we did. We ordered suits from a tailor
in this town, after a pattern that I got from Spalding's this spring.
The suits were of gray flannel, with blue trimmings for our team and red
trimmings for the American. I also ordered bats and gloves, and with the
things our club already had, we were very well equipped.

The Olympic Committee, Stockholm, then received a letter from the
Olympic Committee, New York, saying that if a game of Base Ball could be
arranged for during the Olympian Games, they would bring two teams along
on the Finland. The Olympic Committee cabled to come along, and sent us
a copy of Mr. Sullivan's letter. I knew, of course, that if the game
could be played by two American teams, it would be a much better game
than if our team took part, and told th
e Olympic Committee, and wanted
to withdraw, but as they did not know for sure how it would be, told us
to go ahead with the arrangements just the same, and so we did, and by
the time the Finland arrived, everything had been arranged for.

The Olympic Committee has selected the evening, 7 P.M., of the 10th of
July, for the game, and thought that this would be suitable to the
Americans, but as some of the players had to take part in the contests,
Mr. Halpin would not risk them then, so it was finally decided that a
game should be played the 15th, the Americans to play six innings
between themselves and then six innings against us.

Well, we had a game at the training grounds. We played six innings, and
Mr. Halpin was kind enough to let us have a pitcher and catcher from his
men. The score was 9 to 3, and it could just as well been 9 to 0,
perhaps. Well, at any rate, it was the first Base Ball game, as far as I
know, that ever took place in Europe between an American team and a
European team, with England possibly excepted.

Mr. Halpin said that the Americans were going to play a game the next
morning between themselves, but that game did not come off. There was
probably no time for it, as the Finland left Stockholm the same day.
Very likely the American boys were somewhat disappointed in not being
able to play between themselves, as anticipated, and perhaps I should
not have pushed our game ahead, but as long as there was a Base Ball
team in Sweden, it would have been strange if it had not played, and it
gave our boys a chance to see how the game should be played, and they
certainly did take it in. Had the game been played as it was intended
and advertised, on the 10th in the Stadium, there would very likely have
been a bigger crowd present, and the game would also have been more
talked about in the papers, but then we will have to be satisfied as it
is.

Our club has been practicing all summer, twice a week, and on the 24th
of August we gave an exhibition game here at Westeras, between two teams
from our club, th
e suits made for the Olympic Games coming in very
handy. I send you herewith a clipping from a local paper describing the
game, and also a picture of the two teams with myself and the umpire
included.

At our game here we distributed the "Description of Base Ball," written
by you and translated into Swedish, and it came of good use. Next year
we intend to have our teams appear in the nearby cities around here, so
as to give people a chance to see the game, and it will not be long
before they will start it in Stockholm, so I think the game is bound to
be popular here also,

Mr. George Wright, of Boston, was the umpire at the Stockholm games, and
as he was very kind to us, we would like to send him the picture of the
club, and hope that you will forward us his address.

I am, for Westeras Base Ball Club,

Yours truly,

EDWIN JOHNSON,

Electrical Engineer.

 * * * * *

THE NEW NATIONAL AGREEMENT

Unlimited satisfaction must be had by all who are connected with Base
Ball over the greatly improved conditions by which the season of 1913 is
begun under the new National Agreement. While it perhaps might be
exaggerated boastfulness to affirm that Base Ball, as a professionally
organized sport, has attained perfection, it is not out of reason--
indeed, quite within reason--to observe that Base Ball never had such a
well balanced and perfect organization as that by which it is regulated
at the present time.

The principal fact of congratulation lies in the safeguards and
provisions which have been thrown around the players of the minor
leagues and in the equitable and just measures which have been agreed
upon to provide for their future.

As a general rule it may be taken for granted that the players of the
major leagues can take care of themselves. That is to say, their
positions, if they are expert in their calling, and conscientious in
their deportment, really take care of them.

No club owner, unless he is maliciously or foolishly inclined, will
jeopardize the interests of his team by acting in a wilfully unjust
manner 
toward a player who is cheerfully and uprightly offering his
services. We may hear of occasional exceptions to this condition of
things, but if these occasional exceptions chance to arise, it is
inevitably certain that the owner in the long run will suffer to a
greater degree than the player with whom he deals unfairly.

It is the history of Base Ball that more inequitable treatment has
arisen by fifty per cent in the minor leagues than has had its origin in
the major leagues. The reason for this existed almost wholly in the
inability of Base Ball as a whole to bring the minor league owners to a
realization of the injury that they might be doing and to extend such
punishment and insist upon such regulation as were necessary to change
this undesirable condition.

By the organization of the National Association of Base Ball clubs the
minor leagues, for the first time in their history, placed themselves in
a position where they could demand proper enforcement of regulations for
the government of the sport, and by their alliance with the major league
clubs, under the articles of the National Agreement, a general working
basis was effected whereby compliance with rules could be insisted upon.

The result of this admirable condition of affairs is that wisdom and
equity now rule where there once existed chaos and at times something
akin to anarchy in sport.

At no time in the history of the game, which is so dear to the hearts of
the American people, has the general legislative and executive body been
so well equipped by the adoption of pertinent and virile laws to insist
upon justice to all concerned as at the present moment.

The new National Agreement is an improvement upon the old and the old
was a long, long step in advance of anything which had preceded it. The
mere fact that club owners and leagues were so willing to adopt a system
better than its predecessor wholly confutes the absurd assertions of the
radical element that there is no consideration shown for the player.

To the contrary, every consideration has 
been shown to the player, but
the latter must not confound with the consideration shown to him the
idea that his interests are the only interests at stake in Base Ball.
The man who is willing to furnish the sinews of war has as good standing
in court as the player who furnishes the base hits and the phenomenal
catches.

So perfect is the system which is being attempted to be set in force by
the new National Agreement that the young man who now essays to play
professional Base Ball may be assured of steady advancement in this
profession and a generally improving condition if he will be as honest
by his employer as he expects his employer to be honest by him.

The graduated system of assisting players, step by step, from the least
important leagues to the most important is the most perfect plan of its
kind that has ever been devised. There may be flaws in it, but if there
are they will be remedied, and if modifications are necessary to make it
more perfect there is no doubt that such modifications will be agreed
upon.

As proof of what the new National Agreement may do, although it has
barely had time to be considered, the editor of the GUIDE would submit
the following for consideration:

Ever since the National Agreement was organized the members have always
striven to aid the players in their efforts to gain the top rank in the
great national game. They have had a hard proposition in handling all of
the cases that have been brought to their attention, but their decisions
in all cases were absolutely fair and impartial. Then the matter of the
new agreement occasioned many hours of laborious work on the part of the
members of the Commission, and when the instrument was finally announced
it meant that all of the parties to such an agreement were satisfied and
that there could be no improvement. There was one detail that covered a
wide field, and that was in the matter of players; drafted by the two
big leagues and later sent back to the minors. Under the old National
Agreement it was possible to pick up a player by 
means of the annual
draft from one of the Class C leagues and just before the opening of the
season send him back to the club from whence he came without ever having
given him a chance to land with a club in some higher organization.

Realizing that such players were not given a chance to advance in the
Base Ball profession, this matter was thoroughly thrashed out and the
new ruling under which all of the National Agreement clubs operate was
adopted. Now it is possible for a player in any of the smaller leagues
to be drafted by a major league club, and when the latter party does not
care to retain possession of such a player he is first offered to the
Class AA clubs. All of these clubs must waive on him before he can be
dropped farther down in the list, and if such should be the case he
would then be offered to the Class A clubs. In that way the player,
although he is not fast enough to remain in the two major leagues, is
always given a chance to advance, for if any of the clubs in those
classes higher than that from which he came had grabbed him he was bound
to receive an increase in salary. That meant that he had his chance to
advance, and that was the sole purpose of the National Agreement in
drafting such a rule.

During the past drafting season there were sixty-nine players drafted by
the two major league clubs, and of that number twenty-seven have already
been sent back to the minor leagues. The Class AA and A clubs claimed
all of these twenty-seven, and it is more than likely that there will
also be many more who will be given trials by the big league clubs
during the spring training season and who may later be turned back to
the minors. Of the twenty-seven players thus far sent back seventeen of
them advanced in their profession, a tribute to the sagacity, wisdom and
impartiality of the members of the National Commission. The decision, as
announced by Chairman Herrmann of the National Commission pertaining to
this return of drafted players, is as follows:

------------|-----------------|----------|-------
----|--------------
 Clubs. | League. | Players. | Drafted | Drafted By
 | | | From |
------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|--------------
Louisville |American Asso. |Stansbury |Louisville |St. Louis N.L.
Chattanooga |Southern Asso. |Balenti |Chattanooga|St. Louis A.L.
Sacramento |Pacific Coast |Berghammer|Lincoln |Chicago N.L.
Sacramento |Pacific Coast |Orr |Sacramento |Phila. A.L.
Sacramento |Pacific Coast |[1]Young |Harrisburg |New York A.L.
Sacramento |Pacific Coast |Drohan |Kewanee |Washington.
Indianapolis|American Asso. |Berghammer|Lincoln |Chicago N.L.
Indianapolis|American Asso. |Cathers |Scranton |St. Louis N.L.
Indianapolis|American Asso. |Metz |San Antonio|Boston N.L.
Indianapolis|American Asso. |Kernan |Oshkosh |Chicago A.L.
New Orleans |Southern Asso. |Bates |Newp't News|Cleveland.
New Orleans |Southern Asso. |Wilson |Knoxville |Cleveland.
New Orleans |Southern Asso. |Betts |San Antonio|Cleveland.
New Orleans |Southern Asso. |Drohan |Kewanee |Washington.
New Orleans |Southern Asso. |Williams |Newark, O |Washington.
Portland |Pacific Coast |Williams |Newark, O |Washington.
Portland |Pacific Coast |Drohan |Kewanee |Washington.
Portland |Pacific Coast |Bates. |Newp't News|Cleveland.
Portland |Pacific Coast |Grubb |Morristown |Cleveland.
Portland |Pacific Coast |Wilson |Knoxville |Cleveland.
Portland |Pacific Coast |Betts |San Antonio|Cleveland.
Milwaukee |American Asso. |Beall |Denver |Cleveland.
St. Paul |American Asso. |Berghammer|Lincoln |Chicago N.L.
St. Paul |American Asso. |Miller |Harrisburg |Pittsburgh.
St. Paul |American Asso. |Booe |Ft. Wayne |Pittsburgh.
St. Paul |American Asso. |House |Kewanee |Detroit.
St. Paul |American Asso. |Drohan |Kewanee |Washington.
St. Paul |American Asso. |Beall |Denver |Cleveland.
St. Paul |American Asso. |Balenti |Chattanooga|St. Louis A.L.
St. Paul |American Asso. |Agnew |Vernon |St. Louis A.L.
Omaha |Western League |Wilson |Knoxville |Cleveland.
Omaha |Western League |Williams |Newark, O |Washington.
Omaha |Western League |Betts |San Antonio|Cl
eveland.
Omaha |Western League |Drohan |Kewanee |Washington.
Buffalo |Internat'l League|Schang |Buffalo |Phila. A.L.
Buffalo |Internat'l League|Dolan |Rochester |Phila. A.L.
Buffalo |Internat'l League|Cottrell |Scranton |Chicago N.L.
Buffalo |Internat'l League|Clymer |Minneapolis|Chicago N.L.
Columbus |American Asso. |Drohan |Kewanee |Washington.
Rochester |Internat'l League|Dolan |Rochester |Phila. A.L.
Montreal |Internat'l League|Connelly |Montreal |Washington.
Toledo |American Asso. |Hernden |[2] |St. Louis.
Toledo |American Asso. |Stevenson |Oshkosh |St. Louis N.L.
Toledo |American Asso. |Bates |Newp't News|Cleveland.
Toledo |American Asso. |Wilson |Knoxville |Cleveland.
Denver |Western League |Heckinger |Racine |Chicago N.L.
Denver |Western League |Drohan |Kewanee |Washington.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

1: Subject to investigation as to whether New York American League Club
has title.

2: Subject to investigation as to whether St. Louis American or National
League Club has title to this player and how secured.

 * * * * *

A WORLD'S SERIES PROBLEM

Much discussion arose after the finish of the last world's series as to
whether the adjustment of dates had worked satisfactorily. The
contention was that playing off a tie game on the ground where the game
had been scheduled might work some inconvenience to "fans" and result in
an inequitable allotment of dates, simply to conform to custom.

It was asserted that the importance of the series demanded that it be a
home-and-home affair, dates to alternate regularly, regardless of all
ties or drawn games. To obtain opinion that is sound and practical the
Editor of the GUIDE sent forth the following letter:

NEW YORK, January 31, 1913.

During the recent world's series it so happened that a tie was played in
one of the cities, which compelled both teams to remain in that city for
another date. Before the series was over this arrangement resulted in
one club having five games on its home grounds and the other club having
but 
three games on its home grounds.

It has seemed to some that it is unjust. It is also contended that it is
unfair to the patrons of the game to schedule a contest and then not
play in the city specified after some had traveled many miles to see it.

Will you please give the GUIDE your opinion as to whether a change would
be advisable?

Very truly yours,

JOHN B. FOSTER,
_Editor Spalding's Official Base Ball Guide._

Answers were received to the request for a "symposium of opinion" as
follows:

"So far as having any effect on the chances of the two teams is
concerned, I don't think having to play more games on one ground than on
the other makes any material difference. Where cities are sufficiently
near each other for games to be alternated daily, it would perhaps be
fairer to spectators to do so, irrespective of ties; yet it seems to me
that a tie on one grounds should be played off the next day in the same
city."

W.B. HANNA,
_New York Sun._

 * * * * *

"In my opinion the arrangement on tie games in the post-season contests
is a poor one. I saw the result of it in the series between the Cubs and
White Sox last fall. Two tie games were played and the confusion and
inconvenience it caused the fans was deplorable. It is unjust to the
followers who support Base Ball. It is also unjust, in a small way, to
the club which has to play two or more games on its opponent's field.
Players when away from their home grounds, in a fall series, are more or
less under a nervous strain. If there was confusion, inconvenience and
difficulty in a local series as a result of a tie game, the folly of the
arrangement must appear more absurd when towns like New York and Boston
are involved. Dates should alternate, tie or not tie."

OSCAR C. REICHOW,
_Chicago Daily News._

 * * * * *

"We are in receipt of your favor of the 31st nlt., and wish to thank you
for the opportunity presented.

"It is our opinion that a tie game was played and it should be
considered as a game. Either side had an opportunity to win and any
advantage that the h
ome club might have had was lost when it failed to
break the tie.

"It is, therefore, our belief that this game should have been played in
the other city.

"As to it being unfair to the patrons who had traveled so far to see the
scheduled contest, there is no doubt that they were afforded a
sufficient amount of amusement and excitement for their trouble, in
witnessing a closely played contest."

J. G. T. SPINK,
_St. Louis Sporting News._

 * * * * *

"It seems to me that the game should be alternated between the
contending cities regardless of ties. The tie game gave Boston five
games on the home grounds, while the Giants had only three. Besides,
many persons, who traveled to see the games in New York, were
inconvenienced."

JOHN E. WHEELER,
_New York Herald._

 * * * * *

"I think that the scheduled programme should be played through
irrespective of the results of the respective games, and any extra
playing or playing-off should be done after the originally set schedule
is completed."

H. P. BORCHELL,
_Sports Editor New York Times._

 * * * * *

"I believe it would be inadvisable to change the method that now
prevails. While the situation which arose last season did seem unjust to
the New York club, I think the very fact that Boston had five games on
its home grounds, and the Giants but three on their own diamond, was an
answer to those ill-advised skeptics who are always ready to raise the
cry of hippodroming.

"That same situation is not likely to again arise for a long time, and I
believe the rule as it stands is a guarantee to the public of the strict
honesty of the world's championship contests."

DAMON RUNYON,
_The New York American._

 * * * * *

"A change in the rules regarding world series games would he fairer to
the patrons of the sport. Here in Chicago this past fall two ties were
played and, as a result, there was considerable confusion over the
ticket arrangements. How much more is the case when two cities are
involved? A condition which allows five games to be played in one city
and only three in 
another is scarcely fair to the two teams. By making a
schedule calling for alternate games in each city, irrespective of ties,
everybody--fans and players--would get an even break."

MALCOLM MACLEAN,
_Base Ball Editor Chicago Evening Post._

 * * * * *

"I think it might be fairer to both world's series contenders to play a
regular schedule, regardless of the fact that any tie games may arise in
the series. Under the old system of playing the tie off in the city
where the tie game is played, it brings about a great deal of confusion.
Many fans make arrangements to see a game on a certain day and are
greatly disappointed when the game is played in a different city. Of
course, the old rule of playing the play-off game on the same grounds as
the tie game, is fair to both contesting clubs, as it is merely a matter
of chance where a tie game is played."

FRED. G. LIEB,
_New York Press._

 * * * * *

"The rules regarding the manner of scheduling games for the world's
series should not be changed. There are times when they apparently work
a hardship to one team or the followers of one club, but, after all,
they help to throw the necessary safeguards around the contests. As for
the argument for not playing off a tie game on the same grounds, thus
disarranging the dates and inconveniencing the fans, patrons of the
world's series games are accustomed to this, since bad weather
frequently cuts into the event and causes postponements.

"In a way it does not appear fair that one club should have the
privilege of playing five games at home to three games at home for its
opponents. The rule of playing off a tie game on the same grounds is a
fixture in Base Ball. As to the other game, this was a question of the
luck of the toss of the coin.

"The fans have to trust to luck as to the number of games they will see
in a world's series, this depending upon the number of games played and
possibly upon the toss for a seventh battle. In 1905 the fans of
Philadelphia saw only two games in a world's series with New York. In
1910 only tw
o games were played here in the series with Chicago.

"Any time a club has three games on its own grounds in a series where
four victories decide the issue either it or its followers have not much
chance to raise an objection."

WILLIAM G. WEART,
_The Evening Telegraph._

 * * * * *

"It was, of course, to the disadvantage of the Giants to be obliged to
play five of the eight games in the post-season series last fall on the
grounds of their opponents, but this came as a result of one tie game on
the Boston grounds and being outlucked on the toss to determine where
the deciding game should be played. This tie game unquestionably caused
much inconvenience to patrons because of the change in the schedule made
necessary because of it.

"It is not clear to me, however, just now these things can be remedied
without disturbing the balance of an even break for both teams more
violently than was the case last fall.

"I do not believe there will be another series just like the one of
1912, and so, in my opinion, an immediate change in the conditions
governing these series would not be advisable. It is not clear to me
just what changes could be made. One club or the other is bound to have
the advantage of an extra game on its own grounds, providing seven games
are necessary. The championship in nine out of ten contests will be
decided in seven games or less.

"Then, as to having the games played according to an arbitrarily fixed
schedule, so as not to inconvenience patrons--that would be out of the
question, being open to the objection that it would then be possible to
have every game that figures in the result of the series played on the
home grounds of one of the contestants. For instance, tie games or
unfavorable weather which would prevent a game being played in one city,
would throw all the games to the other city where there might be no tie
games nor unfavorable weather. That would mean four straight, if it so
happened that the home team won the games, and the loser would never
have gotten action on its own grounds. T
hat would be considerably worse
than five to three.

"So it looks to me as if the patrons would have to take their chances in
the future as they have in the past."

JAMES C. O'LEABT,
_Boston Globe._

 * * * * *

"It seems to me that it would be better to alternate (in case of a tie),
as a team able to tie its opponent on a hostile field would be entitled
to consideration for this performance. I am very certain, however, that
the players of both clubs in the recent world's series were satisfied
with an arrangement which minimized the amount of traveling they were
called upon to do.

"Persons who had seen a five-inning tie game terminated by rain would
hardly be satisfied. It seems to me that the rule as to alternating ball
parks should be applied strictly, but only in case the tie game involved
went nine innings or more."

FRANCIS EATON,
_Sports Editor Boston Journal._

 * * * * *

"To me the feasible thing to do appears to be to insert a clause in
stipulations covering all short series of a special character, such as
intercity, inter-league and world's series, making it compulsory for the
teams to alternate between the cities or grounds of the competing
clubs."

PURVES T. KNOX,
_New York Evening Telegram._

 * * * * *

"Why wouldn't it be a good scheme to toss up for the deciding game only
in cases where an equal number of games had been played in each city,
and, in cases where one city had seen more games than the other, to play
the deciding game in the city which had seen the fewer games?

"I do not believe it advisable to change the commission's rule regarding
postponed games. The rule now provides that, in case of a postponement,
the clubs shall remain in the city in which the game was scheduled until
it is possible to play. If this rule were changed and there happened to
be a week of bad weather, as in 1911, the teams and many fans might be
forced to travel back and forth from one town to another for a week
without participating in or seeing a single game; and it might happen
some time that the jump would be
 between St. Louis and Boston."

R. W. LARDNER,
_Chicago Examiner._

 * * * * *

"A change in the rule governing the playing-off of tie games in the
world's series should be made. The teams ought to appear in each city on
the dates named in the schedule drawn up before the series starts,
unless the weather interferes."

WILLIAM H. WRIGHT,
_New York Tribune._

 * * * * *

"Drawn games are as unavoidable as rainy days in world's series, but not
as frequent. They operate the same in their effect on the contest for
the world's pennant and in causing confusion among the patrons by
disarranging the schedule. It would be manifestly unjust if, after a
rain postponement, the competing teams did not remain and play the game
off before playing elsewhere. That might result in playing all of the
games in one city. Since drawn games are treated like postponed games in
the regular season, and are of infrequent occurrence in world's series,
any other arrangement than the present does not seem advisable. The
patrons, who should be considered always, would be among the first to
object if each team did not have an equal show to win. In the last
series only four games that counted were played in Boston and three in
New York and if New York had won the toss for the deciding game the
situation would have been reversed. It would be manifestly fairer to
play the seventh game if necessary in some neutral city."

L. E. SANBORN,
_Chicago Tribune._

NEW FACES IN THE OLD LEAGUE

BY JOHN B. FOSTER.

Not for some time has there been such a turning over of the leaves of
history in the National League as during 1912-13, and because of this
there are many new faces peering out of the album. There have also been
changes in the minor circuits and one prominent change in the American
League.

The death of John T. Brush removed from Base Ball a dean of the National
League. Wise in the lore of the game, a man more of the future than of
the present, as he always foresaw that which some of his contemporaries
were less alert in perceiving, it meant no ea
sy task to be his
successor.

Prior to the death of Mr. Brush there was a great deal of curious and
some idle speculation as to his ultimate successor in case of decease,
or, in the event of his retirement because of bodily weariness. One or
two went so far as to say that upon his death Andrew Freedman would
return to prominence in Base Ball, because he was the real owner of the
New York club. Once and for all the writer would like to put the
personal stamp of absolute denial on the repeated statements made by
certain individuals in New York and Chicago that Andrew Freedman
retained the control of the New York club after John T. Brush was
reported to have purchased it.

Mr. Freedman retained nothing of the kind. Not that Mr. Brush objected
to him as a partner, but when Mr. Brush purchased the stock he purchased
the control outright, although he did request Mr. Freedman to hold a few
shares and not give up his personal interest in Base Ball, for Mr.
Freedman had a great liking for the game in spite of his stormy career.
The assertions that Mr. Freedman was the real owner and Mr. Brush the
nominal owner were made with malicious intent, of which the writer has
proof, and through a desire, if possible, to combat the popularity and
the success of the Giants.

This digression has been made to call attention to the fact that while
rumor was plentiful as to the future control of the Giants Mr. Brush was
carefully "grooming" a young man--his son-in-law, Mr. H. Hempstead--to
take his place.

To a few it was known that Mr. Hempstead was acquiring such experience
and information as would be necessary to assume the control of an
undertaking which has grown so big as the organization of the Giants in
New York. The business details of the club have quadrupled and the cares
and anxieties of the man at the head have increased in proportion.

The Giants, as successful as they have been under the control of John T.
Brush and John J. McGraw, the men who have been the executive heads in
both the business and the playing departments o
f the game, are as
susceptible to reverses as if they were the lowliest club in the
organization. It is only by constant and severe application that the
club's affairs may be kept at the best pitch.

Mr. Hempstead brings to Base Ball the advantage of youth, a keen
business sagacity developed beyond his years, coolness, a disposition
that is sunny and not easily ruffled, and a reputation for unvarying
fairness and the highest type of business and sport ideals. Quite a list
of qualities, but they are there.

If characteristics of that description fail to maintain the high
standard of the New York club, then it will be due to the fact that our
standards of business deportment have turned topsy-turvy.

William H. Locke is the new president and part owner of the Philadelphia
club. He and Mr. Hempstead are the "junior" presidents of the league.
There is no necessity for the Editor of the GUIDE to enter into any long
and fulsome praise as to William H. Locke.

His career speaks for itself and he speaks for himself. A young man of
the finest attributes, he has brought nothing to the mill of Base Ball
to grind except that which was the finest and the cleanest grain.

The writer has known Mr. Locke almost, it seems, from boyhood and
esteems him for his worth, not only as one who has administered the
affairs of Base Ball with skill and intelligence, but as one who wrote
of Base Ball with understanding and excellent taste, for it must not be
forgotten that Mr. Locke is a newspaper graduate into the ranks of the
great sport the affairs of which fill a little corner of the hearts of
so many of America's citizens.

Perhaps no young man ever left a newspaper office to become a Base Ball
president with more good wishes behind him than William H. Locke. He
served his apprenticeship as secretary of the Pittsburgh club and he
served it well. He is a high class, delightful young man, every inch of
him, and Philadelphia will soon become as proud of him as Pittsburgh is
now.

Still another newspaper writer has been claimed from the des
k by the
National League. He is Herman Nickerson, formerly sporting editor of the
Boston Journal, who is now the secretary of the Boston National League
club.

"Nick" is known from one end of the National League circuit to the other
as one of the most solid and substantial of the writing force, and also
as one of the most demure and modest. In addition to his great fund of
information on Base Ball topics he is an author, and "The Sword of
Bussy," a book which was published during the winter, is even more
clever than some of the author's best Base Ball yarns, and that is
saying a great deal in behalf of a man wedded to Base Ball.

Another change in the National League was the selection of Frank M.
Stevens of New York, as one of the Board of Directors of the New York
National League club.

This brings into Base Ball one of New York's cleverest and brightest
young business men, one who is forging so rapidly to the front in
business circles in the big metropolis that many an older head goes to
him for advice. Mr. Stevens knows a lot about Base Ball, which is of
even greater importance in the game, and is not afraid to swing any
venture that will put with fairness a championship team into the big
city. He is a son of Harry M. Stevens, whom everybody knows, rich and
poor alike.

In the American League the death of Mr. Thomas D. Noyes, president of
the Washington club, a young man who left behind naught but friends,
left a vacancy in the organization which was filled by the selection of
Mr. Benjamin S. Minor.

The new president of the club has had practical experience in Base Ball
and perhaps plenty of it, as almost everybody has had in Washington, but
he is a wideawake, progressive and ambitious man, who is of just the
type to keep Base Ball going, now that it has struck its gait in the
national capital, and the future of the sport looks all the brighter for
his connection with it.

THE UMPIRES

The umpires are always with us, and the umpire problem has been a
vexation of Base Ball since the beginning of Base Ball time
, yet neither
the umpires, the public, the club owners nor the league officials need
be discouraged, for it was fully proved in 1912 that umpiring, as a fine
art, has advanced a step nearer perfection. We may well doubt that
perfection in its every quality shall ever be achieved, but we may all
feel sanguine that it is possible to realize better results.

It is true that some men make better umpires than others, exactly as
some men make better ball players than others, but it is also true that
if the men who find it the hardest task to become the most expert
umpires would be given a little more encouragement they might be a
little more successful.

To the staff of umpires of the National League and the American League
it is but fair to render a compliment for their work of last season.
Some of them made mistakes but the general average of work on the part
of the judges of play was excellent.

There was less tendency on the part of the umpires to render their
decisions without being in a position to follow the play correctly. They
were occasionally willing to concede that they might have been wrong
when an analysis of the play was brought to their attention and they
were firm in asserting discipline without becoming overheated on their
own account.

To the mind of the Editor of the GUIDE, in the general light of
observation, the most serious blunders committed by the umpires in 1912
were in making decisions before the play took place. This did happen and
more than once. To illustrate, by an example, the Editor of the GUIDE
had exhibited to him some photographs taken during 1912 in which a
player had been "waved out" before he actually had arrived at the base.
Granting the desire of the umpires to be alert and ready to render
decisions promptly, it is equally apparent that giving decisions in
advance of the completion of plays is likely to imbue the spectators
with an idea that the umpire is either partisan or incompetent.

Young umpires, in their haste to "make good" in the major leagues, are
apt to overdo rather 
than fail to be on time.

While it is not a pleasant subject to discuss, it is a fact that some
umpires had been accustomed to use the very language to players on the
field that they were presumed in their official capacity as umpires to
correct. The writer knows of instances where this took place.

It has ever been the policy of the GUIDE to stand for clean and high
class Base Ball. Twenty per cent. more women attend ball games now than
did ten years ago. Eighty per cent. more women spectators are likely to
attend five years from now. To encourage their attendance every effort
should be made to eliminate all disgraceful conversation on the field.
Wherever it may be ascertained that an umpire has used profane or vulgar
language on the field the editor of the GUIDE believes that he should be
fined and punished as sternly as an offending player.

It is contended that the position of the umpire has been rendered more
arduous by reason of the world's series. The argument is advanced that
the players are more intractable, by reason of their eagerness to play
in the post-season games. That argument would be stronger were it not
for the fact that some of the worst disturbances emanate from the
players of the clubs that have no chance to play in the world's series.

As a general rule two good reasons may be advanced for disputes on the
part of players.

First: Desire to "cover up" the player's own blunder.

Second: General "cussedness."

There are players who make honest objection on the excitement of the
moment from sheer desire to win, but their lapses from Base Ball
etiquette are so few and far between that their transgressions usually
may be forgiven with some grace.

The Editor of the GUIDE would offer one suggestion to league presidents
and umpires; it is this: whenever two possible plays occur in
conjunction, instruct the chief umpire always to turn to the spectators
and inform them which player is out.

For instance, if a player is at bat and another on the bases and two are
out and an attempt is made to steal se
cond, as the chief umpire calls
the batter out on strikes the public should be clearly informed that the
batter is out. If the play looks close at second base the crowd
frequently believes the runner has been called out and resents it
accordingly. In line with the same play, when the runner is called out
and the fourth ball at the same time is called on the batter, the chief
umpire should turn to the spectators and to the press box and make it
clearly understood that the batter has been given a base on balls. It
saves a great deal of annoyance and fault finding.

By the way, although it has been said elsewhere, the Editor of the GUIDE
would beg the indulgence of repetition by stating that the work of the
umpires during the world's series of 1912 was one of the finest
exhibitions of its kind ever seen on a ball field, and somehow it seemed
as if the players, would they but deport themselves during all series as
they did during the world's series might find that there are more good
umpires in the world after all than bad ones.

BASE BALL WRITERS OF THE SOUTH

While the Base Ball writers of the cities which comprise the Southern
Association have no organized membership similar to the Base Ball
Writers' Association of the major leagues and the organizations which
are best known as the class AA leagues, they are a clever, hard-working
group of young men, who have labored in season and out of season, not
only to build up Base Ball but to build it up on the right lines.

Experience of more than a quarter of a century has most abundantly
proved that the standard of Base Ball has steadily been elevated. It
needs no compilation of fact nor any dogmatic assertion on the part of
the Editor of the GUIDE to attest that fact. It is a present condition
which speaks for itself. The general tone of the players is far higher
than it was and there has come into evidence a marked improvement in the
spirit of the men who own Base Ball clubs. In the earlier history of the
sport there was a tendency to win by any means that did not actu
ally
cross the line of dishonesty. Later there came a season when the
commercial end of the game tended to encroach upon the limits of the
pastime. This has been repressed in the last two seasons and to-day the
morale of Base Ball is of a higher type than it ever has been in the
history of the pastime.

It is a high class sport in the main, managed by high class, men for
high class purposes.

Going through the early stages of building up a successful league,
which, by the way, is the severest of all tasks, and even now at
intervals confronted with changes in the league circuit, the Southern
writers have steadily been sowing the seeds of high class Base Ball and
they have seen results prior to this date, for Base Ball has become
popular and has been handsomely and loyally supported in sections in
which fifteen years ago it would have been considered impossible to
achieve such results.

It is true that business reverses and adverse conditions have had at
times their effect upon Base Ball in the South and possibly may produce
similar results again, but the admirable offset to this fact is that
none of these conditions at any time has daunted the spirit and the
resolution of the young men who have zealously been preaching the cause
of clean and healthy Base Ball.

Very likely to their zeal, their courage, their tact and their ability
it is possible to ascribe the increase in good ball players which is
making itself manifest in the South. More high class and attractive
athletes are coming from the Southern states in these days than ever was
the case before. Base Ball is very glad to have them. When a
representative major league team is made up of players who represent
every section in the Union, engaged for their skill, it seems as if Base
Ball has become nearer an ideal and a national pastime than ever before
in the history of the sport.

To the Southern writers the members of the Base Ball Writers Association
and those of the organizations patterned on like lines send greeting.

BASE BALL WORTH WHILE?

One of the fo
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | CONANT's |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | FOR |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent prepaid, on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. M. SPRAGUE |
 | |
 | Is the Authorized Agent of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For the |
 | |
 | New England States, |
 | |
 | To Procure Subscriptions, |
 | and to Employ Canvassers. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades, as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | Sole Agents for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

 Vol. 1. No. 19.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD, By ORPHEUS C. KERR,
Continued in this Number.

 * * * * *

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO |
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON, |
 | |
 | ROOM NO. 4, |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | What it is Not! |
 | |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The C
ollege Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | |
 |Merely a small student's sheet, But is the largest in N. E.|
 |Merely of interest to college men, But to every one. |
 |Merely a COLLEGE paper, But is a scientific paper. |
 |Merely a local paper, But is cosmopolitan. |
 |Merely scientific and educational, But is literary. |
 |An experiment, But an established weekly. |
 |Conducted by students, But by graduates. |
 |Stale and dry, But fresh and interesting. |
 | |
 | It circulates in every College. |
 | It circulates in every Professional School. |
 | It circulates in every Preparatory School. |
 | It circulates in every State in the United States. |
 | It circulates in every civilized country. |
 | It circulates among all College men. |
 | It circulates among all Scientific men. |
 | It circulates among the educated everywhere. |
 | |
 | July 1st a new volume commences. |
 | July 1st 10,000 new subscribers wanted. |
 | July 1st excellent illustrations will appear. |
 | July 1st 10,000 specimen copies to be issued. |
 | July 1st is a good time to subscribe. |
 | July 1st or any time send stamp for a copy. |
 | |
 | TERMS: |
 | |
 | One year, in advance, - - - - - - - $4.00 |
 | Single copies (for sale by all newsdealers), - - - .10 |
 | |
 | Address |
 | THE COLLEGE COURANT, |
 | New Haven, Conn. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing Houses, |
 | can have the same forwarded by inclosing two stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 +---------------------------------------------------
-----------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAILROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at |
 | WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, and July, an attractive and |
 | Saleable Work. |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for July, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & CO. |
 | |
 | Are offering |
 | |
 | A SPLENDID ASSORTMENT |
 | OF THE |
 | LATEST PARIS NOVELTIES, |
 | IN |
 | ROMAN, ECOSSAIS, CARREAUX, |
 | BROCHE, CHINE, GROS |
 | GRAIN AND TAFFETA |
 | |
 | SASH RIBBONS, |
 | IN THE MOST DESIRABLE WIDTHS AND |
 | SHADES OF COLOR. Also, |
 | |
 | Velvet Ribbons, Trimming Ribbons, |
 | Neckties, &c., &c. |
 | |
 | _Great Inducements to Purchasers._ |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Ave., 9th and 10th Sts. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, President |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, Secretary. |
 | |

 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents._ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and |
 | 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2845.] |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | DIBBLEEANIA, |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | Japonica Juice, |
 | |
 | FOR THE HAIR. |
 | |
 | The most effective Soothing and Stimulating Compounds ever |
 | offered to the public for the Removal of Scurf, Dandruff, |
 | &c. |
 | |
 | For consultation, apply at |
 | |
 | WILLIAM DIBBLEE'S, |
 | |
 | Ladies' Hair Dresser and Wig Maker. |
 | |
 | 854 BROADWAY, N. Y. City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY. |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew, |
 | commencing May 31, will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8:45, and |
 | Thirty-fourth at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers, (Nyack, and |
 | Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill, |
 | Hudson, and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge |
 | cars In connection with the day boats will leave on arrival |
 | at Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare |
 | $4.25 from New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat |
 | Seneca will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | |
 | ESTABLISHED 1866. |
 | |
 | JAS R. NICHOLS, M. D., WM. J. ROLFE, A. M., Editors |
 | |
 | |
 | Boston Journal of Chemistry. |
 | |
 | Devoted to the Science of |
 | |
 | HOME LIFE, |
 | |
 | T
he Arts, Agriculture, and Medicine. |
 | |
 | $1.00 Per Year. |
 | |
 | _Journal and Punchinello (without Premium) $4.00._ |
 | |
 | SEND FOR SPECIMEN-COPY. |
 | |
 | Address--JOURNAL OF CHEMISTRY, |
 | |
 | 150 CONGRESS STREET, BOSTON. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

THE

MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XII--(Continued.)

The pauper burial-ground toward which they now progress in a rather
high-stepping manner, or--to vary the phrase--toward which their steps
are now very much bent, is not a favorite resort of the more cheerful
village people after nightfall. Ask any resident of Bumsteadville if he
believed in ghosts, and, if the time were mid-day and the place a
crowded grocery store, he would fearlessly answer in the negative; (just
the same as a Positive philosopher in cast-iron health and with no
thunder shower approaching would undauntedly deny a Deity!) but if any
resident of Bumsteadville should happen to be caught near the country
editor's last home after dark, he would get over that part of his road
in a curiously agile and flighty manner;--(just the same as a Positive
philosopher with a sore throat, or at an uncommonly showy bit of
lightning, would repeat "Now I lay me down to sleep," with surprising
devotion.) So, although no one in all Bumsteadville was in the least
afraid of the pauper burial-ground at any hour, it was not invariably
selected by the great mass of the populace as a peerless place to go
home by at midnight; and the two intellectual explorers find no
sentimental young couples rambling arm in arm among the ghastly
head-boards, nor so much as one l
oiterer smoking his segar on a
suicide's tomb.

"JOHN McLAUGHLIN, you're getting nervous again," says Mr. BUMSTEAD,
catching him in the coat collar with the handle of his umbrella and
drawing the other toward him hand-over-hand. "It's about time that you
should revert again to the hoary JAMES AKER'S excellent preparation for
the human family.--I'll try it first, myself, to see if it tastes at all
of the cork.

"Ah-h," sighs OLD MORTARITY, after his turn has come and been enjoyed at
last, "that's the kind of Spirits I don't mind being a wrapper to. I
could wrap _them_ up all right."

Reflectively chewing a clove, the Ritualistic organist reclines on the
pauper grave of a former writer for the daily press, and cogitates upon
his companion's leaning to Spiritualism; while the other produces
matches and lights their lanterns.

"Mr. McLAUGHLIN," he solemnly remarks, waving his umbrella at the graves
around, "in this scene you behold the very last of man's individual
being. In this entombment he ends forever. Tremble, J. McLAUGHLIN!
--forever. Soul and Spirit are but unmeaning words, according
to the latest big things in science. The departed Dr. DAVIS SLAVONSKI,
of St. Petersburg, before setting out for the Asylum, proved, by his
Atomic Theory, that men are neatly manufactured of Atoms of matter,
which are continually combining together until they form Man; and then
going through the process of Life, which is but the mechanical effect of
their combination; and then wearing apart again by attrition into the
exhaustion of cohesion called Death; and then crumbling into separate
Atoms of native matter, or dust, again; and then gradually combining
again, as before, and evolving another Man; and Living, and Dying,
again; and so on forever. Thus, and thus only, is Man immortal. You are
made exclusively of Atoms of matter, yourself, JOHN McLAUGHLIN. So am I."

"I can understand a man's believing that _he, himself,_ is all Atoms of
matter, and nothing else," responds OLD MORTARITY, skeptically.

"As how, JOHN McLAUGHLIN,--as h
ow?"

"When he knows that, at any rate, he hasn't got one atom of common
sense," is the answer.

Suddenly Mr. BUMSTEAD arises from the grave and frantically shakes hands
with him.

"You're right, sir!" he says, emotionally. "You're a gooroleman, sir.
The Atom of common sense was one of the Atoms that SLAVONSKI forgot all
about. Let's do some skeletons now."

At the further end of the pauper burial-ground, and in the rear of the
former Alms-House, once stood a building used successively as a
cider-mill, a barn, and a kind of chapel for paupers. Long ago, from
neglect and bad weather, the frail wooden superstructure had fallen into
pieces and been gradually carted off; but a sturdy stone foundation
remained underground; and, although the flooring over it had for many
years been covered with debris and rank growth, so as to be
undistinguishable to common eyes from the general earth around it, the
great cellar still extended beneath, and, according to weird rumor, had
some secret access for OLD MORTARITY, who used it as a charnel
store-house for such spoils of the grave as he found in his prowlings.

To the spot thus historied the two moralists of the moonlight come now,
and, with many tumbles, Mr. McLAUGHLIN removes certain artfully placed
stones and rubbish, and lifts a clumsy extemporized trap-door. Below
appears a ricketty old step-ladder leading into darkness.

"I heard such cries and groans down there, last Christmas Eve, as
sounded worse than the Latin singing in the Ritualistic church,"
observes McLAUGHLIN.

"Cries and groans!" echoes Mr. BUMSTEAD, turning quite pale, and
momentarily forgetting the snakes which he is just beginning to discover
among the stones. "You're getting nervous again, poor wreck, and need
some more West Indian cough-mixture.--Wait until I see for myself
whether it's got enough sugar in it."

In due time the great nervous antidote is passed and replaced, and then,
with the lighted lanterns worked around under their arms, they go down
the tottering ladder. Down they go into a great, damp
, musty cavern, to
which their lights give a pallid illumination.

"See here," says OLD MORTARITY, raising a long, curved bone from the
floor. "Look at that: shoulder-blade of unmarried Episcopal lady, aged
thirty-nine."

"How do you know she was so old, and unmarried?" asks the organist.

"Because the shoulder-blade's so sharp."

Mr. Bumstead is surprised at this specimen of the art of an AGASSIZ and
WATERHOUSE HAWKINS in such a mortary old man, and his intellectual pride
causes him to resolve at once upon a rival display.

"Look at this skull, JOHN McLAUGHLIN," he says, referring to an object
that he has found behind the ladder. "See thish fine, retreating brow,
bulging chin, projecting occipital bone, and these orifices of ears that
musht've been stupen'sly long. It's the skull, JOHN McLAUGHLIN, of a
twin-brother of the man who really wished--really wished, JOHN
McLAUGHLIN--that he could be sat'shfied, sir, in his own mind, that
CHARLES DICKENS was a Christian writer."

"Why, thash's skull of a hog," explains Mr. McLAUGHLIN, with some
contempt.

"Twin-brother--all th'shame," says Mr. BUMSTEAD, as though that made no
earthly difference.

Once more, what a strange expedition is this! How strangely the eyes of
the two men look, after two or three more applications to the antique
flask; and how curiously Mr. Bumstead walks on tip-toe at times and
takes short leaps now and then.

"Lesh go now," says BUMSTEAD, after both have been asleep upon their feet
several times; "I think th's snakes down here, JOHN McBUMSTEAD."

"Wh'st! monkies, you mean,--dozens of black monkies, Mr. BUMPLIN,"
whispers OLD MORTARITY, clutching his arm as he sinks against him.

"Noshir! Serp'nts!" insists Mr. BUMSTEAD, making futile attempts to open
his umbrella with one hand. "Warzesmarrer with th' light?--ansh'r me t'
once, Mac JOHNBUNKLIN!"

In their swayings under the confusions and delusions of the vault, their
lanterns have worked around to the neighborhoods of their spines, so
that, whichever way they turn, the light is all behind them.
 Greatly
agitated, as men are apt to be when surrounded by supernatural
influences, they do not perceive the cause of this apparently unnatural
illumination; and, upon turning round and round in irregular circles,
and still finding the light in the wrong place, they exhibit signs of
great trepidation.

"Warzemarrer wirra _light?_" repeats Mr. BUMSTEAD, spinning wildly until
he brings up against the wall.

"Ishgotb'witched, I b'lieve," pants Mr. McLAUGHLIN, whirling as
frenziedly with his own lantern dangling behind him, and coming to an
abrupt pause against the opposite wall.

Thus, each supported against the stones by a shoulder, they breathe hard
for a moment, and then sink into a slumber in which they both slide down
to the ground. Aroused by the shock, they sit up quite dazed, brush away
the swarming snakes and monkies, are freshly alarmed by discovering that
they are now actually sitting upon that perverse light behind them, and,
by a simultaneous impulse, begin crawling about in search of the ladder.
 Unable to see anything with all the light behind him, but fancying
that he discerns a gleam beyond a dark object near at hand, Mr. BUMSTEAD
rises to a standing attitude by a series of complex manoeuvres, and
plants a foot on something.

"I'morth'larrer!" he cries, spiritedly.

"Th'larrer's on me!" answers Mr. MCLAUGHLIN, in evidently great
bewilderment.

Then ensue a momentary wild struggle and muffled crash; for each
gentleman, coming blindly upon the other, has taken the light glimmering
at the other's back for the light at the top of the ladder, and, further
mistaking the other in the dark for the ladder itself, has attempted to
climb him. Mr. BUMSTEAD, however, has got the first step; whereupon, Mr.
MCLAUGHLIN, in resenting what he takes for the ladder's inexcusable
familiarity, has twisted both himself and his equally deluded companion
into a pretty hard fall.

Another interval of hard breathing, and then the organist of Saint Cow's
asks: "Di'you hear anything drop?"

"Yshir, th'larrer got throwed, f'rimp
udence to a gen'l'm'n," is the
peevish return of OLD MORTARITY, who immediately falls asleep as he
lies, with his lantern under his spine.

In his sleep, he dreams that BUMSTEAD examines him closely, with a view
to gaining some clue to the mystery of the light behind both their
backs; and, on finding the lantern under him, and, studying it
profoundly for some time, is suddenly moved to feel along his own back.
He dreams that BUMSTEAD thereupon finds his own lantern, and exclaims,
after half an hour's analytical reflection, "It musht'ave slid round
while JOHN MCLAUGHLIN was intosh'cated." Then, or soon after, the
dreamer awakes, and can discern two Mr. BUMSTEADS seated upon the
step-ladders, with a lantern, baby-like, on each knee.

"You two men are awake at last, eh?" say the organists, with peculiar
smiles.

"Yes, gentlemen," return the MCLAUGHLINS, with yawns.

They ascend silently from the cellar, each believing that he is
accompanied by two companions, and rendered moodily distrustful thereby.

 "Aina maina mona--Mike.
 Bassalone, bona--Strike!"

sings a small, familiar voice, when they stand again above ground, and a
stone whizzes between their heads.

In another moment BUMSTEAD has the fell SMALLEY by the collar, and is
shaking him like a yard of carpet.

"You wretched little tarrier!" he cries in a fury, "you've been spying
around to-night, to find out something about my Spiritualism that may be
distorted to injure my Ritualistic standing."

"I ain't done nothing; and you jest drop me, or I'll knock spots out of
yer!" carols the stony young child. "I jest come to have my aim at that
old Beat there."

"Attend to his case, then--his and his friend's, for he seems to have
some one with him--and never let me see you two boys again."

Thus Mr. BUMSTEAD, as he releases the excited lad, and turns from the
pauper burial-ground for a curious kind of pitching and running walk
homeward. The strange expedition is at an end:-but _which_ end he is
unable just then to decide.

(_To be Continued._)

 * * * * *

[Illustrat
ion: CLERKS ALL AWAY ON A SATURDAY FROLIC, WHICH ACCOUNTS FOR
THE UNFORTUNATE POSITION OF THIS STOUT GENTLEMAN, WHO WAS LEFT ALONE TO
LOCK UP HIS STORE.]

 * * * * *

[Illustration: PUNCHINELLO CORRESPONDENCE.]

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

_Johnny_.--Yes, you may offer your arm to your pretty cousin in the
country whenever you think she would like it, except when Mr.
PUNCHINELLO is present. If that gallant gentleman is at hand, escort
duty may, with perfect propriety, be left to him.

_Charles_ inquires whether his handwriting is good enough to qualify him
for membership in a base ball club. We think he is all right on that
score.

_Glaucus._--We have never heard that Newport is a good place for
gathering sea-shells, but we presume you can shell out there if you
wish.

_Chapeau_.--Hats will be worn on the head this season. It is not
considered stylish to hang them on the ear, eyebrow, or coat collar.

_Cit._--The correct dimensions of a Saratoga pocket-book have not been
definitely decided. As to sending it, it is doubtful whether the
rail-road companies would receive it as baggage. Perhaps you could
charter a canal boat.

_Aspirant_.--We cannot tell you the price of "bored" in Washington "for
a few weeks." No doubt you could get liberally bored at a reasonable
rate.

_Sorosis_--It was very wrong for your husband to mention the muddy
coffee. However, we advise you to attempt a settlement of such troubles
without creating a public scandal.

_Butcher Boy_.--You cannot succeed as a writer of "lite comidy" if you
continue to weave such tragic spells. "The Lean Larder" would not be an
attractive title for your play.

_C. Drincarty_ submits the following problem: If one swallow don't make
a summer, how many claret punches can a man take before fall? Will some
of our ingenious readers offer a suitable solution?

_Culturist_.--The potato has been grafted with great success on the
cucumber tree in some of the Western States. The stock should be heated
by a slow fire until the sap starts. The grafts should be boiled in a
p
reparation known to science as vanilla cream.

_Truth_.--Your information is not authentic. LOUIS NAPOLEON never played
marbles in Central Park, nor took his little Nap in the vestibule of
WOOD'S Museum.

_Fanny_ inquires whether "ballot girls" are wanted in New York. Wyoming
is a better field for them than this city.

_Maine Chance_ has been paying his _devoirs_ with great impartiality to
two young ladies. One of them has red hair and a Roman nose, but the
paternal income is very handsome. The other is witty and pretty, but can
bring no rocks, except possibly "Rock the cradle." Recently he called on
the golden girl, and a menial rudely repulsed him from the door. This
hurt his feelings. He then went to the dwelling of the Fair, when a big
dog attacked him "on purpose," and lacerated his trousers. He wants to
know whether he has any remedy in the courts. His best way is the way
home.

_Rifleman_.--You are right; the rival guns--the Dreyse and the
Chassepot--are also rifle-guns. Both of them are provided with needles,
as you suppose, but, so far as there is any chance of their being put to
the test under present circumstances, in Europe, it rather appears that
both of them will prove Needless.

_Piscator_.--No; the weak-fish is not so called on account of any
supposed feebleness attributable to it. If you take a round of the
markets one of these roaring hot days, your senses will tell you that
the weakfish is sometimes very strong.

 * * * * *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

As a good many persons know, LA GISELLE is a ballet whose hundred legs
are nightly displayed on the stage of the GRAND OPERA HOUSE.

The _Twelve Temptations_ have ceased to tempt, and the familiar legs of
LUPE no longer allure. But in their place we have KATHI LANNER, and
BERTHA LIND, and nearly a gross of assorted legs of the very best
quality.

Why do the women clamor for the ballot, when they have almost exclusive
possession of the ballet? The latter is much nicer and more useful than
the former. The average repeater can obtain only a dollar for his

ballot, but the average ballet will find any quantity of enthusiastic
admirers at one dollar and a half a head. Would any man pay KATHI LANNER
a dollar for the privilege of seeing her with a ballot in her hand?

On the other hand, lives there a man with eyes so dead that he would not
cheerfully pay twice that sum to see her in the mazes of the ballet?

But _La Giselle_? Certainly. I am coming to that in a moment. I have
often thought that nature must have intended me for a writer of sermons.
I have such a facility for beginning an article with a series of general
remarks that have nothing whatever to do with the subject.

Though how can any one be rationally expected to stick to anything in
this weather, except, perhaps, the newly varnished surface of his desk?
And how can even the firmest of resolutions be prevented from melting
and vanishing away, with the thermometer at more degrees than one likes
to mention? You remember the old proverb: "Man proposes, but his
mother-in-law finally disposes." The bearing of this observation lies in
its application.

By the bye, I don't know a better application, in the present weather,
than claret punch. Apply yourself continually to that cooling beverage,
and apply it continually to your lips, and the result is a sort of
reciprocity treat, whose results are much more certain than those of the
reciprocity treaty, of which Congress has latterly had so much to say.

To contemplate _La Giselle_ in all its bearings is a pleasure which is
peculiarly appropriate to the season. KATHI LANNER and her companions
may not be really cool, but they look as though they were. They remind
one of the East Indian country houses that are built on posts, so as to
allow a free circulation of air beneath the foundation. Anyhow, they
look as if they took things coolly.

(A joke might be made on the words coolly and Coolie. The reader may mix
to his own taste. It's too hot for any one to make jokes for other
people.)

But _La Giselle_? Yes! yes! I am just ready to speak of it. _La Giselle_
is a gran
d ballet in which an elaborate plot is developed by the toes of
some fifty young ladies. There is a young woman in it who loves a man,
and there is another woman who also loves him, and another man who loves
the first woman, and meddles and mars as though he were a professional
philanthropist.

The woman--the first woman, I mean--goes crazy down to the extremity of
her feet, and dies, and then there are more women,--no; these last are
disembodied spirits, with nothing but light skirts on,--who dance in
graveyards, and make young men dance with them till they fall down
exhausted, calling in vain for BROWN to take them home in carriages, and
pay for their torn gloves. The first young woman, and a young man--not
the other young man, you understand--does a good deal of--Well, in
fact, things are rather mixed before the ballet comes to an end, but I
know that it's a good thing, for FISK sits in his private box and
applauds it, which he wouldn't do if he didn't.

And now, having placed _La Giselle_ plainly before your mental vision, I
desire to rise to a personal explanation. For the ensuing four weeks,
the places, in PUNCHINELLO, which have heretofore known me, will
know me no more. I am going to a quiet country place on Long Island to
write war correspondence for the--well, I won't mention the name of the
paper. You see the editor of the _Na----_ of the paper in question, I
should say,--wants to have an independent and unprejudiced account of
the great struggle on the Rhine--something that shall be different from
any other account.--Down on Long Island, I shall be out of the reach of
either French or Prussian influence, and will be able to describe events
as they should be. I have made arrangements with the "Veteran Observer"
of the _Times_ to take charge of this column during my absence. If he
can only curb his natural tendency toward frivolity and jocoseness, I am
in hopes that he will be able to draw his salary as promptly and
efficiently as though he were a younger man. Remarking, therefore, in
the words of _Kath
leen Mavourneen_, that my absence "may be four weeks,
and it may be longer," I bid my readers a warm (thermometer one hundred
and five degrees) farewell.

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

JUPITER BELLICOSUS.

Truly, PUNCHINELLO, this is an age of progress. Wars of succession
are no more. Absolutism must forever hang its head. Fling a glance at
France; peer into Prussia, _Vox populi_ is the voice of the King, and
the voice of the king is therefore _vox Dei_. When a king speaks for his
people he must speak sooth; what he says of other peoples must be taken
with a grain of salt. Bearing this in mind, the apparent inconsistency
between the regal rigmarole and the Imperial improvisation (these
epithets are a tribute to the Republic) which I have received by our
_special wire_ from Europe were addressed by the monarchs to their
respective armies before the grand "wiring in" which is to follow.

WILHELM KOENIG VON PRUSSEN.

_Soldaten_: The Gaul is at our gates. _Vaterland_ is in danger: my
_weiss_ is then for war. France, led by a despot, is about to desecrate
the Rhine. His imperial bees are swarming, but we shall send him back
with his bees in his bonnet, and a bee's mark (BISMARCK) on the end of
his nasal organ. France wars for conquest; Prussia never. When FREDERICK
the Great captured Silesia from a Roman without any apparent pretext,
was he not an instrument of Providence? When, in company with Austria,
we beat and bullied Denmark out of Schleswig-Holstein, were we not
victorious, and is not that sufficient justification? When we afterwards
beat this Austria, did it not serve her right? And when we absorbed
Hanover, &c., was it not to protect them? Yes, our present object is the
defence of our country and the capture of Alsace and Lorraine, which
mere politeness prevented us from claiming hitherto. On, then, soldiers
of Deutchland. Let our _law reign_ in Lorraine, for what is sauce for
the Prussian goose should be Alsace for the Gallic gander. The God of
battles is on the side of our just cause; Leipsic is looking at us,
Wate
rloo is watching us. GOTT _und_ WILHELM, _sauerkraut und schnapps.
Vorwarts._

NAPOLEON, EMPEREUR DES FRANCAIS.

_Soldats:_ True to your trust in me, I am about to lead you to
slaughter. _L'Empire c'est la paix_. Prussia would place a poor and
distant relative of mine on the throne of Spain, therefore must we
recover the natural frontier of France, which lies upon the Rhine. The
rhino is ready, and we are ready for the Rhine. Let my red republican
subjects recall Valmy and Jemappes, and their generals KELLERMANN and
DUMAURIOZ. Let every Frenchman kill a Prussian, every woman too _kill
her man_. They did much for _la patrie_ in those days, but do _more ye
to-day_. France wars for ideas only; Prussia for rapine. We have heard
this Rhine-whine long enough; it has got into our heads at last.

The spirit of my uncle has its eye upon you. Ambition was no part of his
nature. His struggles were all for the good of France, "which he loved
so much," as he himself said at his country-seat at St. Helena. Marshal,
then, to the notes of the _Marseillaise_, which I now generously permit
you to sing.

The Gallic rooster shall "cackle, cackle, clap his wings and crow,"
_Unter der Linden_. Jena judges us, Auerstedt is _our status_. The Man
of Destiny and December calls you. The God of armies (who marches with
the strongest battalions) is with us.

_La gloire et des Grenouilles_, France and fried potatoes. _L'Empire et
moi et le prince Imperial. En avant marche!_

 * * * * *

A District that ought to be subject to Earthquakes.

Rockland County.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE CELESTIAL SCARECROW IN MASSACHUSETTS.

IT CONSISTS OF A CHINESE GONG AND A LOT OF PUPPETS WORKED BY THE HANDS OF
CAPITAL; AND SOME PERSONS THINK IT A GOOD JOKE.]

 * * * * *

THE VULTURE'S CALL.

 Come--sisters--come!
 The din of arms is rising from the vale,
 Bright arms are glittering in the morning sun
 And trumpet tones are ringing in the gale!
 Hurrah-hurrah!
 As fast and far
 We hurry to behold the blithesome game of War!

 Haste--sisters--haste!
 The dr
ums are booming, shrill fifes whistling clear,
 The scent of human blood is in the blast,
 And the load cannon stuns the startled ear.
 Away--away!
 To view the fray,
 For us a feast is spread when Man goes forth to slay.

 Rest--sisters--rest!
 Here on these blasted pines; and mark beneath
 How war's red whirlwind shakes earth's crazy breast
 And cumbers it with agony and death.
 Toil, soldiers, toil,
 Through war's turmoil,
 We Vultures gain the prize--we Vultures share the spoil.

 * * * * *

Not Generally Known.

The new three cent stamp smacks of the Revolution; containing, as it
does, the portraits of two military heroes of that period. General
WASHINGTON will be recognized at once, while in the background can be
discerned that brilliant officer--General GREEN.

 * * * * *

Our Future Millionaires.

Once let the Celestials get our American way of doing business, and
there will be plenty of China ASTORS among us.

 * * * * *

THE POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO II.

 "Hey! Diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle
 The cow jumped over the moon.
 The little dog laughed to see the sport,
 And the dish ran after the spoon."

These were the classic expressions of the hilarious poet of a period far
back in the vista of ages. How vividly they portray the exalted state of
his mind; and how impressed the public must have been at the time; for
did not the words become popular immediately, and have they not so
continued to the present day?

Every mother immediately seized upon the verse, and, setting it to music
of her own, sang it as a cradle song to soothe the troubles of
infanthood, and repeated it in great glee to the intelligent babe when
in a crowing mood, as the poem most fitted for the infant's brain to
comprehend.

Papa, anxious to watch the unfolding of the human mind, and its gradual
development, would take the baby-prodigy in his arms, and with keen
glance directed upon its face, repeat, in thrilling tones, the sublime
words. With what joy would he remark and comment upon any gleam of
intelligence, and again and a
gain would he recite, in an impressive
voice, those words so calculated to aid in bringing into blossom the bud
of promise.

But who can meditate upon the memorable stanzas, and not see, in fancy,
the enthusiastic youth--the lover of melody and of nature--as he enters
his dingy room, the ordinary abiding place of poetical geniuses. He
sees his beloved fiddle, and his no less beloved feline friend, in
loving conjunction; he bursts out rapturously with impetuous joy:

 "Hey! diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle!"

He sees the two things dearest to his heart, and sees them both at one
time! And he must be excused for his sudden night into the regions of
classicism.

No wonder that he immediately imagines the world to be as full of joy as
he himself, and that he thinks

 "The cow jumped over the moon."

Perhaps the sight was a sufficient re-moon-eration to him for his past
troubles; and the exhilaration of his spirits caused him to dance, to
cut pigeon-wings, and otherwise gaily disport himself; consequently,

 "The little dog laughed to see the sport,"

which every intelligent dog would have done, under the circumstances.
Certainly, dear reader, you would have done so yourself.

The hilariousness of the poet increasing, and his joyfulness expanding,
his manifestations did not confine themselves to simple dancing-steps
and an occasional pigeon-wing, but, inadvertently perhaps, he introduced
the "can-can," and that explains why

 "The dish ran away with the spoon."

For the end of his excited toe came in contact with his only dish and
spoon, and propelled them to the other side of the room. As he does not
tell us whether the dish remained whole after its escapade, we must
conclude that it was broken, and that the dreadful accident caused,
immediately, a damp to descend upon his effervescent spirits.

In what better way could he give vent to his feelings than in
descriptive verse? He could not shed his tears upon the paper and hand
them around for inspection, or write a melancholy sonnet on the frailty
of crockery, as
 a relief to his mind. No! he chose the course best
fitted to command public attention, as the result proved. He told his
tale--its cause and effect--in as few words as possible. Fortunate if
other poets would only do the same!

 * * * * *

An Ornithological Con.

What bird does General PRIM most resemble?
A Kingfisher.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: NOTES ON THE FERRY.

MR. CARAMEL, WHO IS OBSERVANT, CONTEMPLATIVE, AND GIVEN TO COMPARISON,
ARRIVES AT THE CONCLUSION THAT SOME WOMEN ARE NICER THAN OTHERS.]

 * * * * *

THE MISERIES OF A HANDSOME MAN.

Ever since my earliest recollections I have been a victim to
circumstances.

Beauty, which others desire and try every means to obtain, to me has
been a source of untold misery. From my infancy, when ugly women with
horrid breaths would stop my nurse in the streets and insist upon
kissing me--through my school-days, when the girls would pet me and
offer me a share of their nuts and candies, and the boys laugh at me in
consequence, and call me "gal-boy," squirt ink upon my face for
beauty-spots, and present me with curl-papers and flowers for my
hair--until the present, when I am denied introductions to young ladies
and am put off on old women--I have suffered for my looks.

In my boarding-house I am shunned as if I had the plague. When I enter
the parlor or dining-room, I see the ladies look at each other with a
knowing air, as much as to say, "Look at him!" And the answer is
telegraphed back, "Ain't he handsome? but he knows it," as if I could
help knowing it with every one telling me so fifty times a day; and
husbands pay unusual attention to their wives when I am around, as if I
were an ogre.

I am naturally a modest man, made more so by my extreme sensitiveness to
personal criticism; and to be obliged to stand apparently unconscious,
when I know I am being looked at and commented upon, is harrowing to my
feelings. I feel sometimes as if I should drop down on the floor, but
then folks would never stop laughing if I did, at what they would be
pleased to term my extrem
e ladylikeness! I have actually prayed that I
might get the small-pox, and once walked through the small-pox hospital
for that purpose, but escaped unharmed.

I suppose I must have been vaccinated. In fact, I know I have been, for
how often have I looked at the scar on my arm, and wished it had been on
my cheek, or at the end of my nose, or, in fact, on any place where it
might be considered a blemish.

When I was a child I came near killing myself one night by going to bed
with two large bottle-corks thrust into my nostrils, to make them large,
like other boys'; and have made my mouth sore by stretching it with my
fingers, or forcing melon-rinds into it, to enlarge it. But it was
useless; perhaps the mouth might be sore for a couple of days, but its
shape remained unaltered.

Now that I am a man, I am as unfortunate as ever. My hair _will_ curl,
even when shaved within half-an-inch of the scalp; my moustache will
stay jet-black, although I sometimes wax the ends of it with soap, and
walk on the sunny side of Broadway; my teeth are perfect, and I never
need a dentist; and my hands are shameful for a man,--so all my
old-maid-aunts and bachelor-uncles say.

My affections have been trifled with several times, "because," as they
said, "when they had drawn me to the proposing point, I was too handsome
to be good for anything as a husband--I did very well for a beau."
Goodness! is it only ugly men that can marry? I want to marry and settle
down; for I am so slighted in society that I look with envy upon homely
or mis-shapen men.

But who will have me? I put it to you, my friend, if it isn't a hard
case. I want an intelligent and agreeable wife, and one that comes of a
respectable family. I don't think I am asking too much, but it seems
fate has determined such a one I can never have! I have either to remain
single, or take one that is "ignorant and vulgar." That, of course,
would be as much remarked upon as my appearance, so it cannot be thought
of.

I want to escape observation and criticism. I think strongly of
emigr
ating to the Rocky Mountains, donning a rough garb, and digging for
gold, in the hope of getting round-shouldered; or hiring myself out as a
wood-chopper, in anticipation of a chip flying up and taking off part of
my obnoxious nose.

If there were no women around, I might escape notice out there. But if
one happened to come along, I should be obliged to leave, for her eyes
would ferret out my unfortunate peculiarities, and all my wounds would
be opened afresh. Sometimes I think there is no spot on the globe where
I would be welcomed; and I feel inclined to commit some desperate deed,
that I may be arrested and confined out of the sight of man and
woman-kind, until I am aged and bent enough to be presentable.

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

Passing down Chatham street the other day, PUNCHINELLO stopped in front
of a window where hung a highly-colored engraving of an Austrian
sovereign engaged in the Easter ceremony of washing the feet of twelve
old men and women.

An Irishman at our side, who had been puzzling some time to comprehend
the problem thus submitted to him, finally broke out:

"An' may I ax ye, misther, to be koind enough to exshplain phat in the
wurruld that owld roosther's doin'?" pointing to the figure of the
kneeling monarch.

"He is washing the feet of the ladies and gentlemen," mildly put in
PUNCHINELLO.

"Bedad," says PAT, "don't I see that for meself; but phatis he doin' it
for?"

"It is a ceremony of the Catholic Church," PUNCHINELLO explained,
"typical of the washing of the feet of the Twelve Apostles."

PAT eyed PUNCHINELLO askance with an expression which plainly enough
said that he did not believe we had been reared to tell the truth
strictly upon all occasions, and then added:

"Bad cess to your manners, then, don't I know betther nor that; for
haven't I been in the church these forty years, and sorrow a sowl ever
washed _me_ feet!"

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE SITUATION IN EUROPE.

 INTO "BIZ" LOUIS NAP HE IS GOING,
 TO PAY OFF THE DEBTS THAT HE'S OWING;
 DETERMINED THAT HE WILL MAKE _his
_ MARK,
 BY TAKING THE CHANGE OUT OF BISMARCK.]

 * * * * *

FROM AN ANXIOUS MOTHER TO HER DAUGHTER.

[Who is at a Watering Place.]

NEW YORK, July 12, 1870.

MY DEAR DAUGHTER: How are you getting on, dear? Well, I hope, for you
know I _do_ want to get you off, desperately. Thirty-seven, and still on
my hands! Mr. GUSHER, of the Four-hundred-and-thirty-ninth Avenue, goes
down next Saturday. He will hunt you up. Mr. GUSHER is a nice man--so
sympathetic and kind; and has such a lovely moustache. Besides, my dear
SOPHY, he has oceans of stamps. Quite true, my child, he hasn't much of
anything else, but girls at thirty-seven must not have too sharp eyes,
nor see too much. Do, dear, try and fix him if you can. Put all your
little artifices into effect. Walk, if possible, by moonlight, and
alone; that is, with him. Talk, as you know you can, of the sweets of
love and the delights of home. Dwell on the felicities of love in a
cottage, and if he doesn't see it, dilate on the article in a
brown-stone front, with marble steps. Picture to him in the most glowing
terms the joys of the fireside, with fond you by his side. If he hints
that a fireside in July is slightly tepid, thoughtfully suggest that it
is merely a figure of speech, and introduce an episode of cream to cool
it. Quote vehemently from TENNYSON, and LONGFELLOW, and Mrs. BROWNING.
Bring the artillery of your eyes to bear squarely on the mark. Remember
that thirty-seven years and an anxious mother are steadily looking down
upon you.

Cut SMIRCH. SMIRCH is a worthless fellow. Would you believe it? his
father makes boot-pegs for a living. The house of WIGGINS cannot consort
with the son of one who pegs along in life in this manner! Never. Banish
SMIRCH. Don't let SMIRCH even look at your footprints on the beach.

Then there is Mr. BLUSTER. What is he? Who? Impertinent puppy! Pretended
to own a corner-house on the Twenty-fifth Avenue, and wanted to know how
_I_ should like it? Like it? I should like to see him in Sing-Sing! _He_
own a house?--a brass foundry more li
ke, and that in his face! Keep a
sharp eye on BLUSTER and his blarney. He's what our neighbor GINGER
calls a "beat," whatever that is--a squash, no doubt.

Don't spare any pains, my dear, for a market. I was only twenty-six when
I married the late lamented Mr. WIGGINS. And a dear good man he
was--only I wish he had paid his bills at the corner groceries. How he
_did_ love, my dear--that favorite demijohn in the corner! And then when
he came home at night with such a smile--he'd been taking them all day.
Don't fail to catch somebody. GUSHER, depend, is the man. Money is
everything. Never mind what he hasn't got just under the hat. It is the
pocket you must aim at. What is life and society--what New York--without
money? Say you love him to distraction. Declare your existence is bound
up in his. (Greenback binding.) Throw yourself at his feet at the
opportune moment, and victory must be yours. Impale him at all hazards.
Remember you are thirty-seven and well on in life. Your own loving

MARIA ANASTASIA WIGGINS.

 * * * * *

THE PUMP.

An Old Story with a Modern Application.

 Like rifts of sunshine, her tresses
 Waved over her shoulders bare,
 And she flitted as light o'er the meadows,
 As an angel in the air.

 "O maid of the country, rest thee
 This village pump beside,
 And here thou shalt fill thy pitcher,
 Like REBECCA, the well beside!"

 But a voice from yonder window
 Through my shuddering senses ran,
 And these were its words: "MARIA-R!
 MA-RIA-R! don't-mind-that-man!"

 * * * * *

[Illustration: LUCIFERS LITTLE GAME WITH HIS ROYAL PUPPETS.]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN'S EXPERIENCE AS AN EDITOR.

Lively Times in the Editorial Sanctum.--The "Lait Gustise" handled
Roughly.

"Whooray! Whooray!" I exclaimed, rushin' into the kitchen door, one
mornin' last spring, and addressin' Mrs. GREEN. "I've been invited to
edit the _Skeensboro Fish Horn_. Fame, madam, awaits your talented
pardner."

"Talented Lunkhead, you mean," said this interestin' femail; "you'd look
sweet editin' a noose paper. So would H. WARD BEECHER d
ancin' 'shoo-fly'
along with DAN BRYANT. Don't make a fool of yourself if you know
anything, HIRAM, and respect your family."

The above conversation was the prelude to my first and last experience
in editin' a country paper.

The editor of the "Fish Horn" went on a pleasure trip, to plant a rich
ant who had died and left him some cash.

Durin' his absence I run his paper for him. Seatin' my form on top of the
nail keg, with shears and paste brush I prepared to show this ere
community how to run a noosepaper.

I writ the follerin' little squibs and put 'em in my first issue.

"If a sertin lite complexion man wouldn't run his hands down into sugar
barrels so often, when visitin' grosery stores, it would be money in the
pocket of the Skeensboro merchants"--

"Query. Wonder how a farmer in this town, whose name we will not rite,
likes burnin' wood from his nabor's wood-pile?"--

"We would advise a sertin toothles old made to leave off paintin' her
cheeks, and stop slanderin' her nabors. If she does so, she will be a
more interestin' femail to have around."--

"Stop Thief.--If that Deekin, who trades at one of our grocery stores,
and helps himself to ten cents worth of tobacker while buyin' one cents
worth of pipes, will devide up his custom, it would be doing the square
thing by the man who has kept him in tobacker for several years."

These articles was like the bustin' of a lot of bombshells in this
usually quiet boro.

The Deekins called a church meetin', and played a game of old sledge, to
see who would call and demand satisfaction for the insult. As they all
smoked, they couldn't tell who was hit, as their tobacker bill was small
all around.

Deekin PERKINS got beat when they come to "saw off."

Said this pious man:

"If old GREEN don't chaw his words, I'll bust his gizzard."

The farmers met at SIMMINSES store. After tryin' on the garment about
steelin' wood, it was hard to decide who the coat fit the best, but each
one made up his mind to pay off an old grudge and "pitch into the Lait
Gustise."

All the old m
ades met together in the village milliner shop, where the
Sore-eye-siss society held meetin's once a week, and their false teeth
trembled like a rattlesnake's tail, when they read my artickle about old
mades.

It was finally resolved by this anshient lot of caliker to "stir up old
GREEN."

Headed by SARY YOUMANS, the crossest old made in the U.S., and all armed
with broom-sticks and darnin'-needles, the door of my editorial offis
was busted open, and the whole caboodle of wimmen, famishin' for my top
hair, entered.

They foamed at the mouth like a pack of dissappinted Orpheus--C--Kerrs,
as they brandished their wepins over my bald head.

"Squire GREEN," sed a maskaline lookin' specimen of time worn caliker,
holdin' a copy of the _Fish Horn_ in her bony fingers, "did you rite
that 'ere?"

"Wall," sed I, feelin' somewhat riled at the sassy crowd, "s'posen I did
or didn't, what on it?"

"We are goin' to visit the wrath of a down-trodden rase upon your
frontispiece, that's what we is, d'ye hear, old Pilgarlick?" said the
exasperated 16th Amendmenter, as she brought down her gingham umbrella
over my shoulders.

At this they all rushed for me. With paste-brush and shears I kept them
off, until somebody pushed me over a woman who had got tripped up, when
the army of infuriated Amazons piled onto my aged form.

This round dident last more'n two minutes, for as soon as they got me
down, they all stuck their confounded needles into me, and then left me
lookin' more like a porkupine than a human bein'.

I hadent more'n had time to pull out a few quarts of needles, before in
walks 2 big strappin' farmers.

"Old man, we've come for you," said one of 'em. "We'll larn you to
slander honest fokes."

At this he let fly his rite bute at my cote skirts.

I was home-sick, you can jest bet. Then t'other chap let me have it.

"Down stairs with him," sed they both, and down I went, pooty lively for
an old man.

Just as I got to the bottom I lit on a man's head. It was Deekin PERKINS
comein' to "bust my gizzard."

"Hevings and airth," s
ed the Deekin as he tumbled over in the entry way.
I jumped behind a door, emejutly, and as the farmers proceeded to polish
off the Deekin, I was willin' to forgive both of 'em, as the Deekin
groaned and yelled.

Yes siree! it was soothin' fun for me, to see them farmers welt the
Deekin.

Steelin' up stairs agin, I was brushin' off my clothes, when in walks
EBENEZER.

"Sawtel," said he, ceasin' me by the cote coller and shakin' me, "Ile
larn you to rite about steelin' sugar; take that--and that," at which he
let fly his bute, and down stairs I went agin--Eben urgin' me on with
his bute.--

Suffice to say, the whole village called on me that day, and I was
kicked down stairs 32 times by the watch.--Hosswhipt by 17
wimmen--besides bein' stuck full of needles by a lot more.

I got so used to bein' kicked down stairs, that evry time a man come in
the door, I would place my back towards him and sing out:

"Kick away, my friend, I'm in the Editorial biziness to-day--to-morrow I
go hents--there's rather too much exsitement runnin' a noosepaper, and I
shall resine this evenin."

When I got home that nite, I looked like an angel carryin' a palm-leaf
fan in his hand, and clothed in purple and fine linen. My body was
purpler than a huckleberry pie, and my linen was torn into pieces finer
than a postage-stamp.

"Sarved you rite, you old fool," said Mrs. GREEN, as she stood rubbin'
camfire onto me. "In ritin' noosepaper articles, editors orter name
their man. A shoe which hain't bilt for anybody in particular, will get
onto evrybody in general's foot. When it does, the bilder had better get
ready for numerous bootin's, from that self-same shoe."

Between you and I, PUNCHINELLO, MARIAH is about 1/2 rite. Too-rally
ewers.

HIRAM: GREEN, ESQ.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._

 * * * * *

COMIC ZOOLOGY

Order, Cetacea.--The Right (and wrong) Whale.

The largest of the Cetacea is the Right whale, of which--so persistently
is it hunted down--there will soon be but few Left. Some flippant jokist
has remarked that there is no Wrong wha
le, but this is all Oily Gammon.
There is a right and a wrong to everything--not excepting the leviathan
of the deep.

By the courtesy of the Fisheries, the planting of a harpoon in the
vitals of a Right whale gives the planter a pre-emption claim to it. If
subsequently appropriated by another party it becomes, so far as that
party is concerned, the Wrong whale, and on Trying the case its value
may be recovered in a court of law,--with Whaling costs.

The sperm whale, or cachalot, (genus _physeter_) is a rare visitor in
the higher latitudes. Now and then a solitary specimen is taken in the
Northern Atlantic, but the best place to catch a lot is on the Pacific
coast. It may be mentioned incidentally, as a curious meteorological
coincidence, that Whales and Waterspouts are invariably seen together,
and hence it was, (perhaps,) that the long-necked cloud pointed out by
HAMLET to POLONIUS, reminded that old Grampus of a Whale.

The favorite food of the great marine mammal of the Pacific is the
Squid, and as this little creature swarms in the vicinity of Hawaii, the
cachalot instinctively goes there at certain seasons to chew its Squid
by way of a Sandwich.

Although the capture of the whale involves an immense amount of Paying
Out before anything can be realized, it has probably always been a
lucrative pursuit. The great fish seems, however, to have yielded the
greatest Prophet in the days of JONAH. No man since then has enjoyed the
same facilities for forming a true estimate of the value of the monster,
that were vouchsafed to that singular man. Perhaps during his visit to
Nineveh he entertained the Ninnies with a learned lecture on the
subject, but if so, it has not turned up to reward the research of
modern Archaeologists. LAYARD found the word JONAH inscribed among the
ruins of the old Assyrian city, but the name of the ancient mariner was
unaccompanied by any mention of the whale.

All the whale family, though apparently phlegmatic, are somewhat given
to Blowing up, and, when about to die, instead of taking the 
matter
coolly and philosophically, they are always terribly Flurried. In fact,
the whale, when in _articulo mortis_, makes a more tremendous rumpus
about its latter end than any other animal either of the sea or land.

The Right whale, though many people make Light of it, is unquestionably
the heaviest of living creatures. Scales never contained anything so
ponderous. But while conceding to Leviathan the proud title of Monarch
of the Deep, it should be remarked that it has a rival on the land,
known as Old King Coal, that completely takes the Shine out of it.

 * * * * *

THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacations.

At Newport, one cannot fail to perceive a certain atmosphere of blue
blood--but it must not be understood, from this expression, that the air
is filled with cerulean gore. Mr. P. merely wished to remark that the
society at that watering place is very aristocratic. He felt the
influence himself, although he staid there only a few days. His
aristocratic impulses all came out. Whether they staid out or not
remains to be seen.

But no matter. He found many of the best people in Newport, and he felt
congenial. When a fellow sits at his wine with men like JOHN T. HOFFMAN,
and AUGUST BELMONT, and PARAN STEVENS; and takes the air with Mrs. J.F.,
Jr., behind her delightful four-in-hand, he is apt to feel a little
"uppish." If anyone doubts it let him try it. At the Atlantic Hotel they
gave Mr. P. the room which had been recently vacated by Gov. PADELFORD.
He was glad to hear this. He liked the room a great deal better when he
heard that the Governor wasn't there any more.

The first walk that he took on the beach proved to him that this was no
place for illiterate snobs and shoddyites. Everybody talked of high
moral aims, or questions of deep import, (especially the high tariff
Congressmen,) and even the little girls who were sitting in the shade,
(with big white umbrellas over them to keep the freckles off,) were
puzzling their heads over charades and enigmas, instead of running
around and making little Fr
ou-Frous of themselves. Mr. P. composed an
enigma for a group of these young students. Said he:

 "My first is a useless expense.
 My second is a useless expense.
 My third is a useless expense.
 My fourth is a useless expense.
 My fifth is a useless expense.
 My sixth is a useless expense,
 and so is my eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, and all the rest
 of my parts, of which there are three hundred and fifty.

 My whole is a useless expense, and sits at Washington."

The dear little girls were not long in guessing this ingenious enigma
and while they were rejoicing over their success, Mr. P. was suddenly
addressed by a man who had been standing behind him. Starting
little, he turned around and was thus addressed by his unknown
listener.

"Sir," said that individual, "do I understand you to mean that the
Congress of the United States is a useless expense?"

"Well, sir," said Mr. P., with a smile, "as it costs a great deal and
does very little, I cannot but think it is both useless and expensive."

"Then sir," said the other, "you must think the whole institution is a
nuisance generally."

"You put it very strongly," said Mr. P., "but I fear that you are about
right."

"Sir!" cried the gentleman, his face beaming with an indescribable
expression. "Give me your hand! I am glad to know you. I agree with you
exactly. My name is WHITTEMORE."

But Mr. P. did not waste all his time in talking to strangers and
concocting enigmas. He had come to Newport with a purpose. It was none
of the ordinary purposes of watering place visitors. These he could
carry out elsewhere.

His object in coming here was grand, unusual and romantic. _He came to
be rescued by IDA LEWIS!_

It was not easy to devise a plan for this noble design, and it was not
until the morning of the second day of his visit, that Mr. P. was ready
for the adventure. Then he hired a boat, and set sail, alone, o'er the
boundless bosom of the Atlantic.

He had not sailed more than a few hours on said boundless bosom, before
he turned his prow back towards land,--t
owards the far-famed Lime Rocks,
on which the intrepid heroine dwells. He had thought of being wrecked at
night, but fearing that IDA might not be able to find him in the dark,
he gave up this idea. His present intention was that Miss LEWIS should
believe him to be a lonely mariner from a far distance, tossed by the
angry waves upon her rock-bound coast But there was a certain difficulty
in the way, which Mr. P. feared would prove fatal to his hopes.

The sea was just as smooth as glass!

And the wind all died away!

There was not enough left to ruffle a squirrel's tail. How absurd the
situation! How could he ever be dashed helpless upon the rocks under
such circumstances?

The tide was setting in, and as he gradually drifted towards the land,
he saw the storied rocks, and even perceived Miss IDA, sitting upon a
shady prominence, crocheting a tidy.

What should he do to attract her attention? How put himself in imminent
peril? His anxiety for a time was dreadful, but he thought of a plan. He
got out his knife and whittled the mast half through.

"Now," thought he, "if my mast and rigging go by the board, she will
surely come and rescue me!"

But the mast and rigging were as obstinate as outside speculators in
Wall street,--they would not go by the board,--and Mr. P. was obliged at
last to break down the mast by main force. But the lady heard not the
awful crash, and little weened that a fellow-being was out alone on the
wild watery waste, in a shipwrecked bark! After waiting for some time,
that she might ween this terrible truth, Mr. P, concluded that there was
nothing to do but to spring a leak.

But he found this difficult. Kick as hard as he might, he could not
loosen a bottom board. And he had no auger! The Lime Rocks were getting
nearer and nearer. Would he drift safely ashore?

"Oh! how can I wreck myself, 'ere it be too late?" he cried, in the
agony of his heart. Wild with apprehensions of reaching the land without
danger, he sat down and madly whittled a hole in the bottom of the boat,
making it, as nearl
y as possible, such a one as a sword fish would be
likely to cut. When he got it done, the water bubbled through it like an
oil-well. In fact, Mr. P. was afraid that his vessel would fill up
before he was near enough for the maiden on the rocks to hear his
heart-rending cries for succor. He could see her plainly now. 'Twas
certainly she. He knew her by her photograph--("Twenty-five cents, sir.
The American female GRACE DARLING, sir. Likeness warranted, sir.")

But she turned not towards him. Confound it! Would she finish that
eternal tidy ere she glanced around?

The boat was almost full now. It would sink before she saw it! That hole
must be stopped until he had drifted near enough to give vent to an
agonizing cry for help.

Having nothing else convenient, Mr. P. clapped into the hole a lot of
manuscripts which he had brought with him for consideration.
(Correspondents who may experience apparent neglect will please take
notice. It is presumed, of course, that every one who writes anything
worth reading, will keep a copy of it.)

Now the rocks were comparatively near, and standing up to his knees in
water, Mr. P. gave the appropriate heart-rending cry for succor. But in
spite of the prevailing calm, he perceived that there was a surf upon
the rocks, and a noise of many waters. At the top of his voice Mr. P.
again shouted.

"Hello, IDA!"

But he soon found that he would have to hello longer as well as hello
IDA, and he did it.

At last she heard him.

Dropping her work-basket, she ran to the edge of the rock, and making a
trumpet of her hands, called out:

"Ahoy there! What's up?"

"Me!" answered Mr. P., "but I won't be up very long. Haste to my
assistance, oh maiden! ere I sink!"

Then she shouted again:

"I've got no boat! It's over to MCCURDY's, getting caulked!"

No boat!

Then indeed did Mr. P. turn pale, and his knees did tremble.

But IDA was not to be daunted. Bounding like a chamois o'er the rocks,
to her house, she quickly returned with a long coil of rope, and
instantly hurled it over the curling break
ers with such a strong arm and
true aim, that one end of it struck Mr. P. in the face with a crack like
that of a giant's whip.

He grasped the rope, and that instant his boat sank like a rock!

IDA hauled away like a steam-engine, and Mr. P.'s prow (his nose, you
know,) cut through the water like a knife, in a straight line for the
shore. In front of him he saw a great mass of sharp roots. He shuddered,
but over them he went. On, on, he went, nor turned aside for jagged
cleft or sharp-edged stone. A ship, loaded with queensware, had been
wrecked near shore, and through a vast mass of broken plates, and cups,
and saucers, Mr. P. went,--straight and swift as an arrow.

At last, wet, bleeding, ragged, scratched, and feint, he reached the
shore. Said IDA, as she supported him towards her dwelling: "How did you
ever come to be wrecked on such a day as this?"

Mr. P. hesitated. But with such a noble creature, the truth would surely
be the best. He told her all.

"Oh!" said he. "Dear girl, 'twas I, myself, who hewed down my mast and
scuttled my fair bark. And I did it, maiden fair! that thy brave arm
might rescue me from the watery deep, (you know what a good thing it
would be for both of us when it got in the papers,) and that on thy
hardy bosom I might be borne--"

"Born jackass!" interrupted IDA. "I believe that everybody who comes to
Newport make fools of themselves about me; but you are certainly the
Champion Fool of the Lime Rocks."

Mr. P. couldn't deny it.

 * * * * *

Alphabetical.

From the insult passed upon Count BENDETTI, at Ems, it appears that the
Prussian government does not always mind its P's and Q's.

 * * * * *

A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME.

A Love Tale.

I.

"I won't do it--there!"

Miss ANGELINA VAVASOUR sat her little fat body down in a chair, slapped
her little fat hands upon her little fat knees, swelled her little fat
person until she looked like a big gooseberry just ready to burst, and
then turned her little fat red face up to Mr. JOHN SMITH, who was
standing before her.

"I regret," said Mr. J
.S., "that you should refuse to be Mrs. JOHN
SMITH." (ANGELINA shuddered.) "Might I ask you why?"

"No," said she. "Say, my age."

"But I don't object to that," said J.S.

"Well, I won't," said ANGELINA, "that's all!"

J.S. rubbed the fur on his hat the wrong way, pulled up his shirt
collar, looked mournfully at the idol of his heart, and departed.

Why did she refuse him? Listen!

About a thousand or two years ago--well, perhaps we had better not go so
far back--anyhow, Miss VAVASOUR had ancestors, and she was proud of
them; she had a name, and she gloried in it; she had $100,000, and
therefore insisted on keeping her aristocratic name; she had kept it for
forty years, and was willing to take a contract for the rest of the job,
though she did feel that she needed a man to slide down the hill of time
with her, and she was rather fond of SMITH.

Mr. JOHN SMITH wanted to marry her for herself alone, though he had made
inquiries and knew all about that $100,000.

Thus it was.

II.

"That's all!" Miss VAVASOUR had said.

But was it all? She thought it was matrimony; J.S. thought it was matter
o' money, and J.S. had a long head--an awfully long head.

Mr. JOHN SMITH sat before the grate. His auburn locks, his Roman nose,
his little grey eyes, his thin lips, his big ears, and each particular
hair of his red whiskers, expressed intense disgust.

He was day-dreaming, seeing visions in the fire. There he saw Miss
ANGELINA VAVASOUR. Her eyes were ten dollar gold pieces, her nose a
little pile of ducats, each cheek seemed swelled out by large quantities
of dollars, every tooth in her head was a double-eagle, and her hair was
a mass of ingots. He heaved a sigh and took a fresh chew.

The tobacco seemed to refresh him; he walked the floor for a while, and
then sat in his chair. Suddenly his countenance was irradiated, like a
ripening squash at early morn, and he sprang to his feet, crying out,
"Eureka! I'll do it."

III.

Eureka! How? What? Thus.

One month afterwards our hero presented himself at the house of Miss
VAVASOUR, 
carrying under his arm a large volume, bound in calf.

"Miss VAVASOUR," said he, "I come to repeat my proposition to you. Will
you reconsider?"

"Sir?" said she.

"Things have changed," said our hero.

"Changed!" echoed she. "What do you mean, Mr. JOHN SMITH?"

"Call me not by that vile cognomen," quoth he. "Look!" and he opened the
Session Laws at page 1004.

She read:

"STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF BLANK.

I, JONATHAN JERUSALEM, Clerk of said County, do hereby certify that the
following change of name has been made by the County Court of this
County, viz.:

JOHN SMITH to AUGUSTUS VAVASOUR.

In testimony whereof, I have set my hand and the seal of the County,
June 3d, 1870. JONATHAN JERUSALEM, _Clerk_." [L.S.]

She fell into his arms, and rested her palpitating head upon his
palpitating bosom. He pulled up his shirt-collar, trod on the cat, and
gently whispered, "$100,000."

MORAL.

A word to the wise. Go and do like-wise. LOT.

 * * * * *

Gummy.

The following is from a Western paper:

"At Council Buffs, Iowa, a woman who don't chew gum is out of style, and
gets the cold shoulder."

Our comment upon the above is that there must be very little gumshun
among the women of Council Bluffs.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: "SUCH IS LIFE."

Here you see Tom, Dick, and Harry, as they looked when starting
in the morning for a day's fishing.

And this is the same party, dejected, bedraggled, and foot-sore
wearily making their way homeward after their day's "sport."]

 * * * * *

DOWN THE BAY.

Mr. Punchinello: It is just possible that you never went on a fine
fishing excursion down the Bay with a party of nice young men. If you
never did, don't. I confess it sounds well on paper. But it's a Deceit,
a Snare, and a Hollow Mockery. I will narrate.

Some days ago I was induced (the Deuce is in it if I ever am again) to
participate in a supposed festivity of this nature. In the first place,
we (the excursionists,) chartered a yacht, two Hands that knew the
Ropes--they looked as if they might have been acquainted with the Rope's
E
nd--and a small Octoroon of the male persuasion as waiter. As CHOWLES
characteristically observed, (he is a Stock Broker, and was one of the
party,) "there is nothing like a feeling of Security." So we engaged a
Skipper who was perfectly familiar with the BARINGS of the Banks, and
Thoroughly Posted on all Sea 'Changes, at least so CHOWLES expressed it,
but then he is apt to be somewhat technical at times. This accomplished
mariner was reputed to have been "Round the Horn" several times, which I
am led to believe was perfectly true, as he smelt strongly of spirits
when he came on board. I was much discouraged at the appearance of this
Skipper, and had half a mind to give my friends the Slip when I saw him
on the Wharf.

Having manned our craft, we purchased a colossal refrigerator in which
to put our Bass and Weak Fish, laid in a stock of cold provisions--among
other things a Cold Shoulder--plenty of exhilarating beverages, and,
with Buoyant Spirits, (every Man of us,) and plenty of ice on board,
started on the slack of the Morning Tide. I regret to state that by the
time we were ready to start our Skipper was half way "Over the Bay,"
being provided with a pocket pistol charged to the muzzle. He and his
two subordinates were pretty well "Shot in the neck" by the time we
reached Fort Lafoyette. The consequence of this was that we no sooner
came Abreast of the reef in that locality than we got Afoul of it. For
getting Afoul of the Rocks we had to Fork over twenty dollars to the
captain of a tug boat which came and Snaked us off with a Coil of Rope
when the tide rose.

During the time we remained stationary, the Bottle, I am sorry to say,
kept going Round. All the excursionists except myself got half seas
over, and when we resumed our voyage the steersman had fallen asleep, so
the vessel left a Wake behind her which was extremely crooked.

We anchored that night outside Sandy Hook, and next morning cast our
lines overboard, and commenced fishing. Our success in that Line was
astounding, not to say embarrassing. We co
mmenced to take Fish on an
unparalleled Scale. Dog Fish and Stingarees were hauled over the side
without intermission. The former is a kind of small shark. As they will
Swallow anything, we Took them In very fast Although extremely
voracious, they are so simple that if it were not for their size they
would fell an easy prey to the Sea Gull, which, in spite of its name, is
a very Wide Awake bird. Stingarees are fish of much more
Penetration--their sharp tails slashing everything that comes in their
way. These natural weapons, which have been furnished them by Providence
as a means of defence in their Extremity, cut through a fellow's
trousers like paper. The interesting creatures cut up so that we kindly
consigned them, together with the dog fish, to their native element,
having first benevolently knocked them on the head. Changing our
location for a change of luck, we captured a superb mess of sea robins
and toad fish. This satisfied us. So we pulled up anchor, not Hankering
for any more such sport, and left the Hook, very glad to Hook It. We
didn't have any of our toadies or robbins cooked, as those "spoils of
ocean," although interesting as marine curiosities, are not considered
good to eat, but each man had a Broil, as the Sun was very hot, and as
CHOWLES remarked, "brought out the Gravy." That night we turned in,
having been turned inside out all day. Next morning we reached home. The
skipper presented his Bill in the course of the day. Although extremely
exorbitant, we paid it without a murmur, being too much exhausted from
casting up accounts ourselves, to bring him to Book for his misconduct.
Such is the sad experience of

Yours Reverentially,

CHINCAPEN.

 * * * * *

The Pillar of Salt (Lake.)

Lot's (of) Wife.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Are offering novelties in |
 | |
 | Crepe de Chine Sashes |
 | |
 | WITH HEAVY FRINGES, |
 | |
 | The Latest Paris Style. Also, |
 | |
 | WIDE BLACK AND COLORED |
 | SASH RIBBONS |
 | |
 | Roman
, Ecossais, Broche and |
 | Chine Ribbons, |
 | |
 | JUST RECEIVED. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Are closing out their stock of |
 | |
 | FRENCH, ENGLISH, AND DOMESTIC |
 | |
 | CARPETS, |
 | |
 | Oil Cloths, Rugs, Mats, Cocoa and Canton |
 | Mattings, &c., &c. |
 | |
 | At a Great REDUCTION IN PRICES, |
 | |
 | Notwithstanding the unexpected extraordinary |
 | rise in gold. |
 | |
 | _Customers and Strangers are Respectfully_ |
 | |
 | INVITED TO EXAMINE. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Extraordinay Bargains |
 | |
 | IN |
 | |
 | LADIES' PARIS AND DOMESTIC READY-MADE |
 | |
 | Suits, Robes, Reception |
 | Dresses, &c., |
 | |
 | Some less than half their cost. |
 | |
 | AND WE WILL DAILY OFFER NOVELTIES IN |
 | |
 | Plain and Braided Victoria Lawn, |
 | Linen and Pique Traveling |
 | |
 | SUITS. |
 | |
 | CHILDREN'S BRAIDED LINEN AND |
 | |
 | Pique Garments, |
 | |
 | SIZES FROM 2 YEARS TO 10 YEARS OLD. |
 | |
 | PANIER BEDUOIN MANTLES, |
 | IN CHOICE COLORS, |
 | |
 | From $3.50 to $7 each. |
 | |
 | Richly Embroidered Cashmere and |
 | Cloth Breakfast Jackets, |
 | |
 | PARIS MADE, |
 | |
 | $8 each and upward. |
 | |
 | A. T. Steward & Co. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of its kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | " " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00 |
 | Single 
copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 x 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-1/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper--for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens: |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | |
 | Pointer and Quail; |
 | Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; |
 | The Unconscious Sleeper; |
 | The Two Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-1/4. |
 | |
 | Spring; Summer; Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. 11 x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13 x 18. |
 | |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9 1/8 x 4 1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and |
 | |
 | Six American Landscapes. (A set.) |
 | 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 | |
 | Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New York, or Regist
ered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter, in |
 | advance; the CHROMOS will be _mailed free_ on receipt of |
 | money. |
 | |
 | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be |
 | given. For special terms address the Company. |
 | |
 | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of |
 | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A |
 | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or |
 | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: A CHINAMAN'S FUNERAL]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PRANG'S LATEST PUBLICATIONS: "Wild Flowers," "Water-Lilies," |
 | "Chas. Dickens." |
 | |
 | PRANG'S CHROMOS sold in all Art Stores throughout the |
 | world. |
 | |
 | PRANG'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE sent free on receipt of stamp. |
 | |
 | L. PRANG & CO., Boston. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | With a large and varied experience in the management and |
 | publication of a paper of the class herewith submitted, and |
 | with the still more positive advantage of an Ample Capital |
 | to justify the undertaking, the |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO. |
 | |
 | OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, |
 | |
 | Presents to the public for approval, the new |
 | |
 | ILLUSTRATED HUMOROUS AND SATIRICAL |
 | |
 | WEEKLY PAPER, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO, |
 | |
 | The first number of which was issued under |
 | date of April 2. |
 | |
 | ORIGINAL ARTICLES, |
 | |
 | Suitable for the paper, and Original Designs, or suggestive |
 | ideas or sketches for illustrations, upon the topics of the |
 | day, are always acc
eptable and will be paid for liberally. |
 | |
 | Rejected communications cannot be returned, unless |
 | postage stamps are inclosed. |
 | |
 | TERMS: |
 | |
 |One copy, per year, in advance. . . . . . . . . . . . . $4.00 |
 |Single copies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 |
 | |
 | A specimen copy will be mailed free upon the |
 | receipt of ten cents. |
 | One copy, with the Riverside Magazine, or any other |
 |magazine or paper, price, $2.50, for. . . . . . . . . . 5.50 |
 |One copy, with any magazine or paper, price, $4, for. . 7.00 |
 | |
 | All communications, remittances, etc., to be addressed to |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, |
 | |
 | P.O. Box, 2783, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Tourists and Pleasure Traveler |
 | |
 | will be glad to learn that the Erie Railway Company has |
 | prepared |
 | |
 | COMBINATION EXCURSION |
 | |
 | OR |
 | |
 | Round Trip Tickets, |
 | |
 | Valid during the entire season, and embracing Ithaca-- |
 | headwaters of Cayuga Lake--Niagara Falls, Lake Ontario, the |
 | River St. Lawrence, Montreal, Quebec, Lake Champlain, Lake |
 | George, Saratoga, the White Mountains, and all principal |
 | points of interest in Northern New York, the Canada, and New |
 | England. Also similar Tickets at reduced rates, through Lake |
 | Superior, enabling travelers to visit the celebrated Iron |
 | Mountains and Copper Mines of that region. By applying at |
 | the Offices of the Erie Railway Co., Nos. 241, 529 and 957 |
 | Broadway; 205 Chambers St.; 38 Greenwich St.; cor. 125th St. |
 | and Third Avenue, Harlem; 338 Fulton St., Brooklyn; Depots |
 | foot of Chambers Street, and foot of 23rd St., New York; No. |
 | 3 Exchange Place, and Long Dock Depot, Jersey City, and the |
 | Agents at the principal hotels, travelers can obtain just |
 | the Ticket they desire, as well as all the necessary |
 | information. |
 | |
 +-------------------------------------------------------
<|endoftext|>
The Project Gutenberg Etext of Dante's Paradise [Divine Comedy]
Translanted by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!

Please take a look at the important information in this header.
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
electronic path open for the next readers. Do not remove this.

**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**

**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**

*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*

Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
further information is included below. We need your donations.

Dante's Paradise [Divine Comedy]

Translanted by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

August, 1997 [Etext #1003]

The Project Gutenberg Etext of Dante's Paradise [Divine Comedy]
****This file should be named 1003.txtt or 1003.zip*****

This etext was prepared by Dennis McCarthy, Atlanta, GA.

We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
of the official release dates, for time for better editing.

Please note: neither this list nor its contents are final till
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month. A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
and editing by those who wish to do so. To be sure you have an
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
in the first week of the next month. Since our ftp program has
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
new copy has at least one byte more or less.

Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work. The
fifty hours is one conservative estimate for how long it we take
to get any etext selected, 
entered, proofread, edited, copyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc. This
projected audience is one hundred million readers. If our value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-two text
files per month, or 384 more Etexts in 1997 for a total of 1000+
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
total should reach over 100 billion Etexts given away.

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Files by the December 31, 2001. [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
which is only 10% of the present number of computer users. 2001
should have at least twice as many computer users as that, so it
will require us reaching less than 5% of the users in 2001.

We need your donations more than ever!

All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/CMU": and are
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law. (CMU = Carnegie-
Mellon University).

For these and other matters, please mail to:

Project Gutenberg
P. O. Box 2782
Champaign, IL 61825

When all other email fails try our Executive Director:
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>

We would prefer to send you this information by email
(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).

******
If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please
FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
[Mac users, do NOT point and click. . .type]

ftp uiarchive.cso.uiuc.edu
login: anonymous
password: your@login
cd etext/etext90 through /etext96
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]
dir [to see files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
GET INDEX?00.GUT
for a list of books
and
GET NEW GUT for general information
and
MGET GUT* for newsletters.

**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
(Three Pages)

***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here? You know: lawyers.
Th
ey tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault. So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you. It also tells you how
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
this "Small Print!" statement. If you do not, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from. If you received this etext on a physical
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Carnegie-Mellon University (the "Project"). Among other
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
works. Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
medium they may be on may contain "Defects". Among other
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or
 Refund" described below,
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from. If you received it
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy. If you received it electronically, such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS". NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1] Only give exa
ct copies of it. Among other things, this
 requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
 etext or this "small print!" statement. You may however,
 if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
 binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
 including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
 cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
 *EITHER*:

 [*] The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
 does *not* contain characters other than those
 intended by the author of the work, although tilde
 (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
 be used to convey punctuation intended by the
 author, and additional characters may be used to
 indicate hypertext links; OR

 [*] The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
 no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
 form by the program that displays the etext (as is
 the case, for instance, with most word processors);
 OR

 [*] You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
 no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
 etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
 or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2] Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
 "Small Print!" statement.

[3] Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
 net profits you derive calculated using the method you
 already use to calculate your applicable taxes. If you
 don't derive profits, no royalty is due. Royalties are
 payable to "Project Gutenberg Association/Carnegie-Mellon
 University" within the 60 days following each
 date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
 your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
you can think of. Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
Association / Carnegie-Mellon University".

*END*THE SMALL PRINT! F
OR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*

This etext was prepared by Dennis McCarthy, Atlanta, GA.

THE DIVINE COMEDY

OF DANTE ALIGHIERI
(1265-1321)

TRANSLATED BY
HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW
(1807-1882)

CANTICLE III: PARADISO

CREDITS

The base text for this edition has been provided by Digital Dante, a
project sponsored by Columbia University's Institute for Learning
Technologies. Specific thanks goes to Jennifer Hogan (Project
Editor/Director), Tanya Larkin (Assistant to Editor), Robert W. Cole
(Proofreader/Assistant Editor), and Jennifer Cook (Proofreader).

The Digital Dante Project is a digital 'study space' for Dante studies and
scholarship. The project is multi-faceted and fluid by nature of the Web.
Digital Dante attempts to organize the information most significant for
students first engaging with Dante and scholars researching Dante. The
digital of Digital Dante incurs a new challenge to the student, the
scholar, and teacher, perusing the Web: to become proficient in the new
tools, e.g., Search, the Discussion Group, well enough to look beyond the
technology and delve into the content. For more information and access to
the project, please visit its web site at:
http://www.ilt.columbia.edu/projects/dante/

For this Project Gutenberg edition the e-text was rechecked. The editor
greatly thanks Dian McCarthy for her assistance in proofreading the
Paradiso. Also deserving praise are Herbert Fann for programming the text
editor "Desktop Tools/Edit" and the late August Dvorak for designing his
keyboard layout. Please refer to Project Gutenberg's e-text listings for
other editions or translations of 'The Divine Comedy.' Please refer to
the end of this file for supplemental materials.

Dennis McCarthy, July 1997
imprimatur@juno.com

CONTENTS

Paradiso

 I. The Ascent to the First Heaven. The Sphere of Fire.
 II. The First Heaven, the Moon: Spirits who, having taken
 Sacred Vows, were forced to violate them. The Lunar Spots.
 III. Piccarda Donati and the Empress Constance.
 IV. Questionings of the Soul and of
 Broken Vows.
 V. Discourse of Beatrice on Vows and Compensations.
 Ascent to the Second Heaven, Mercury: Spirits who for
 the Love of Fame achieved great Deeds.
 VI. Justinian. The Roman Eagle. The Empire. Romeo.
 VII. Beatrice's Discourse of the Crucifixion, the Incarnation,
 the Immortality of the Soul, and the Resurrection of the Body.
 VIII. Ascent to the Third Heaven, Venus: Lovers. Charles Martel.
 Discourse on diverse Natures.
 IX. Cunizza da Romano, Folco of Marseilles, and Rahab.
 Neglect of the Holy Land.
 X. The Fourth Heaven, the Sun: Theologians and Fathers of
 the Church. The First Circle. St. Thomas of Aquinas.
 XI. St. Thomas recounts the Life of St. Francis. Lament over
 the State of the Dominican Order.
 XII. St. Buonaventura recounts the Life of St. Dominic. Lament
 over the State of the Franciscan Order. The Second Circle.
 XIII. Of the Wisdom of Solomon. St. Thomas reproaches
 Dante's Judgement.
 XIV. The Third Circle. Discourse on the Resurrection of the Flesh.
 The Fifth Heaven, Mars: Martyrs and Crusaders who died fighting
 for the true Faith. The Celestial Cross.
 XV. Cacciaguida. Florence in the Olden Time.
 XVI. Dante's Noble Ancestry. Cacciaguida's Discourse of
 the Great Florentines.
 XVII. Cacciaguida's Prophecy of Dante's Banishment.
 XVIII. The Sixth Heaven, Jupiter: Righteous Kings and Rulers.
 The Celestial Eagle. Dante's Invectives against
 ecclesiastical Avarice.
 XIX. The Eagle discourses of Salvation, Faith, and Virtue.
 Condemnation of the vile Kings of A.D. 1300.
 XX. The Eagle praises the Righteous Kings of old.
 Benevolence of the Divine Will.
 XXI. The Seventh Heaven, Saturn: The Contemplative.
 The Celestial Stairway. St. Peter Damiano. His Invectives
 against the Luxury of the Prelates.
 XXII. St. Benedict. His Lamentation over the Corruption of Monks.
 The Eighth Heaven, the Fixed Stars.
 XXIII. The Triumph of Christ. The Virgin Mary. The Apostles.
 Gabriel.
 XXIV. The Radiant Wheel. St. Peter examines Dante on Faith.
 XXV. The Laurel Crown. St. James examines Dante 
on Hope.
 Dante's Blindness.
 XXVI. St. John examines Dante on Charity. Dante's Sight. Adam.
 XXVII. St. Peter's reproof of bad Popes. The Ascent to
 the Ninth Heaven, the 'Primum Mobile.'
XXVIII. God and the Angelic Hierarchies.
 XXIX. Beatrice's Discourse of the Creation of the Angels,
 and of the Fall of Lucifer. Her Reproof of Foolish and
 Avaricious Preachers.
 XXX. The Tenth Heaven, or Empyrean. The River of Light.
 The Two Courts of Heaven. The White Rose of Paradise.
 The great Throne.
 XXXI. The Glory of Paradise. Departure of Beatrice. St. Bernard.
 XXXII. St. Bernard points out the Saints in the White Rose.
XXXIII. Prayer to the Virgin. The Threefold Circle of the Trinity.
 Mystery of the Divine and Human Nature.

The Divine Comedy
translated by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
(e-text courtesy ILT's Digital Dante Project)

PARADISO

Paradiso: Canto I

The glory of Him who moveth everything
 Doth penetrate the universe, and shine
 In one part more and in another less.

Within that heaven which most his light receives
 Was I, and things beheld which to repeat
 Nor knows, nor can, who from above descends;

Because in drawing near to its desire
 Our intellect ingulphs itself so far,
 That after it the memory cannot go.

Truly whatever of the holy realm
 I had the power to treasure in my mind
 Shall now become the subject of my song.

O good Apollo, for this last emprise
 Make of me such a vessel of thy power
 As giving the beloved laurel asks!

One summit of Parnassus hitherto
 Has been enough for me, but now with both
 I needs must enter the arena left.

Enter into my bosom, thou, and breathe
 As at the time when Marsyas thou didst draw
 Out of the scabbard of those limbs of his.

O power divine, lend'st thou thyself to me
 So that the shadow of the blessed realm
 Stamped in my brain I can make manifest,

Thou'lt see me come unto thy darling tree,
 And crown myself thereafter with those leaves
 Of which the theme and thou shall make me worthy.

So seldom, Father, do we gather them
 For triumph or of Caesar or 
of Poet,
 (The fault and shame of human inclinations,)

That the Peneian foliage should bring forth
 Joy to the joyous Delphic deity,
 When any one it makes to thirst for it.

A little spark is followed by great flame;
 Perchance with better voices after me
 Shall prayer be made that Cyrrha may respond!

To mortal men by passages diverse
 Uprises the world's lamp; but by that one
 Which circles four uniteth with three crosses,

With better course and with a better star
 Conjoined it issues, and the mundane wax
 Tempers and stamps more after its own fashion.

Almost that passage had made morning there
 And evening here, and there was wholly white
 That hemisphere, and black the other part,

When Beatrice towards the left-hand side
 I saw turned round, and gazing at the sun;
 Never did eagle fasten so upon it!

And even as a second ray is wont
 To issue from the first and reascend,
 Like to a pilgrim who would fain return,

Thus of her action, through the eyes infused
 In my imagination, mine I made,
 And sunward fixed mine eyes beyond our wont.

There much is lawful which is here unlawful
 Unto our powers, by virtue of the place
 Made for the human species as its own.

Not long I bore it, nor so little while
 But I beheld it sparkle round about
 Like iron that comes molten from the fire;

And suddenly it seemed that day to day
 Was added, as if He who has the power
 Had with another sun the heaven adorned.

With eyes upon the everlasting wheels
 Stood Beatrice all intent, and I, on her
 Fixing my vision from above removed,

Such at her aspect inwardly became
 As Glaucus, tasting of the herb that made him
 Peer of the other gods beneath the sea.

To represent transhumanise in words
 Impossible were; the example, then, suffice
 Him for whom Grace the experience reserves.

If I was merely what of me thou newly
 Createdst, Love who governest the heaven,
 Thou knowest, who didst lift me with thy light!

When now the wheel, which thou dost make eternal
 Desiring thee, made me attentive to it
 By harmony thou dost modula
te and measure,

Then seemed to me so much of heaven enkindled
 By the sun's flame, that neither rain nor river
 E'er made a lake so widely spread abroad.

The newness of the sound and the great light
 Kindled in me a longing for their cause,
 Never before with such acuteness felt;

Whence she, who saw me as I saw myself,
 To quiet in me my perturbed mind,
 Opened her mouth, ere I did mine to ask,

And she began: "Thou makest thyself so dull
 With false imagining, that thou seest not
 What thou wouldst see if thou hadst shaken it off.

Thou art not upon earth, as thou believest;
 But lightning, fleeing its appropriate site,
 Ne'er ran as thou, who thitherward returnest."

If of my former doubt I was divested
 By these brief little words more smiled than spoken,
 I in a new one was the more ensnared;

And said: "Already did I rest content
 From great amazement; but am now amazed
 In what way I transcend these bodies light."

Whereupon she, after a pitying sigh,
 Her eyes directed tow'rds me with that look
 A mother casts on a delirious child;

And she began: "All things whate'er they be
 Have order among themselves, and this is form,
 That makes the universe resemble God.

Here do the higher creatures see the footprints
 Of the Eternal Power, which is the end
 Whereto is made the law already mentioned.

In the order that I speak of are inclined
 All natures, by their destinies diverse,
 More or less near unto their origin;

Hence they move onward unto ports diverse
 O'er the great sea of being; and each one
 With instinct given it which bears it on.

This bears away the fire towards the moon;
 This is in mortal hearts the motive power
 This binds together and unites the earth.

Nor only the created things that are
 Without intelligence this bow shoots forth,
 But those that have both intellect and love.

The Providence that regulates all this
 Makes with its light the heaven forever quiet,
 Wherein that turns which has the greatest haste.

And thither now, as to a site decreed,
 Bears us away the virtue of that co
rd
 Which aims its arrows at a joyous mark.

True is it, that as oftentimes the form
 Accords not with the intention of the art,
 Because in answering is matter deaf,

So likewise from this course doth deviate
 Sometimes the creature, who the power possesses,
 Though thus impelled, to swerve some other way,

(In the same wise as one may see the fire
 Fall from a cloud,) if the first impetus
 Earthward is wrested by some false delight.

Thou shouldst not wonder more, if well I judge,
 At thine ascent, than at a rivulet
 From some high mount descending to the lowland.

Marvel it would be in thee, if deprived
 Of hindrance, thou wert seated down below,
 As if on earth the living fire were quiet."

Thereat she heavenward turned again her face.

Paradiso: Canto II

O Ye, who in some pretty little boat,
 Eager to listen, have been following
 Behind my ship, that singing sails along,

Turn back to look again upon your shores;
 Do not put out to sea, lest peradventure,
 In losing me, you might yourselves be lost.

The sea I sail has never yet been passed;
 Minerva breathes, and pilots me Apollo,
 And Muses nine point out to me the Bears.

Ye other few who have the neck uplifted
 Betimes to th' bread of Angels upon which
 One liveth here and grows not sated by it,

Well may you launch upon the deep salt-sea
 Your vessel, keeping still my wake before you
 Upon the water that grows smooth again.

Those glorious ones who unto Colchos passed
 Were not so wonder-struck as you shall be,
 When Jason they beheld a ploughman made!

The con-created and perpetual thirst
 For the realm deiform did bear us on,
 As swift almost as ye the heavens behold.

Upward gazed Beatrice, and I at her;
 And in such space perchance as strikes a bolt
 And flies, and from the notch unlocks itself,

Arrived I saw me where a wondrous thing
 Drew to itself my sight; and therefore she
 From whom no care of mine could be concealed,

Towards me turning, blithe as beautiful,
 Said unto me: "Fix gratefully thy mind
 On God, who unto the first star has brough
t us."

It seemed to me a cloud encompassed us,
 Luminous, dense, consolidate and bright
 As adamant on which the sun is striking.

Into itself did the eternal pearl
 Receive us, even as water doth receive
 A ray of light, remaining still unbroken.

If I was body, (and we here conceive not
 How one dimension tolerates another,
 Which needs must be if body enter body,)

More the desire should be enkindled in us
 That essence to behold, wherein is seen
 How God and our own nature were united.

There will be seen what we receive by faith,
 Not demonstrated, but self-evident
 In guise of the first truth that man believes.

I made reply: "Madonna, as devoutly
 As most I can do I give thanks to Him
 Who has removed me from the mortal world.

But tell me what the dusky spots may be
 Upon this body, which below on earth
 Make people tell that fabulous tale of Cain?"

Somewhat she smiled; and then, "If the opinion
 Of mortals be erroneous," she said,
 "Where'er the key of sense doth not unlock,

Certes, the shafts of wonder should not pierce thee
 Now, forasmuch as, following the senses,
 Thou seest that the reason has short wings.

But tell me what thou think'st of it thyself."
 And I: "What seems to us up here diverse,
 Is caused, I think, by bodies rare and dense."

And she: "Right truly shalt thou see immersed
 In error thy belief, if well thou hearest
 The argument that I shall make against it.

Lights many the eighth sphere displays to you
 Which in their quality and quantity
 May noted be of aspects different.

If this were caused by rare and dense alone,
 One only virtue would there be in all
 Or more or less diffused, or equally.

Virtues diverse must be perforce the fruits
 Of formal principles; and these, save one,
 Of course would by thy reasoning be destroyed.

Besides, if rarity were of this dimness
 The cause thou askest, either through and through
 This planet thus attenuate were of matter,

Or else, as in a body is apportioned
 The fat and lean, so in like manner this
 Would in its volume interchange the 
leaves.

Were it the former, in the sun's eclipse
 It would be manifest by the shining through
 Of light, as through aught tenuous interfused.

This is not so; hence we must scan the other,
 And if it chance the other I demolish,
 Then falsified will thy opinion be.

But if this rarity go not through and through,
 There needs must be a limit, beyond which
 Its contrary prevents the further passing,

And thence the foreign radiance is reflected,
 Even as a colour cometh back from glass,
 The which behind itself concealeth lead.

Now thou wilt say the sunbeam shows itself
 More dimly there than in the other parts,
 By being there reflected farther back.

From this reply experiment will free thee
 If e'er thou try it, which is wont to be
 The fountain to the rivers of your arts.

Three mirrors shalt thou take, and two remove
 Alike from thee, the other more remote
 Between the former two shall meet thine eyes.

Turned towards these, cause that behind thy back
 Be placed a light, illuming the three mirrors
 And coming back to thee by all reflected.

Though in its quantity be not so ample
 The image most remote, there shalt thou see
 How it perforce is equally resplendent.

Now, as beneath the touches of warm rays
 Naked the subject of the snow remains
 Both of its former colour and its cold,

Thee thus remaining in thy intellect,
 Will I inform with such a living light,
 That it shall tremble in its aspect to thee.

Within the heaven of the divine repose
 Revolves a body, in whose virtue lies
 The being of whatever it contains.

The following heaven, that has so many eyes,
 Divides this being by essences diverse,
 Distinguished from it, and by it contained.

The other spheres, by various differences,
 All the distinctions which they have within them
 Dispose unto their ends and their effects.

Thus do these organs of the world proceed,
 As thou perceivest now, from grade to grade;
 Since from above they take, and act beneath.

Observe me well, how through this place I come
 Unto the truth thou wishest, that hereafter

 Thou mayst alone know how to keep the ford

The power and motion of the holy spheres,
 As from the artisan the hammer's craft,
 Forth from the blessed motors must proceed.

The heaven, which lights so manifold make fair,
 From the Intelligence profound, which turns it,
 The image takes, and makes of it a seal.

And even as the soul within your dust
 Through members different and accommodated
 To faculties diverse expands itself,

So likewise this Intelligence diffuses
 Its virtue multiplied among the stars.
 Itself revolving on its unity.

Virtue diverse doth a diverse alloyage
 Make with the precious body that it quickens,
 In which, as life in you, it is combined.

From the glad nature whence it is derived,
 The mingled virtue through the body shines,
 Even as gladness through the living pupil.

From this proceeds whate'er from light to light
 Appeareth different, not from dense and rare:
 This is the formal principle that produces,

According to its goodness, dark and bright."

Paradiso: Canto III

That Sun, which erst with love my bosom warmed,
 Of beauteous truth had unto me discovered,
 By proving and reproving, the sweet aspect.

And, that I might confess myself convinced
 And confident, so far as was befitting,
 I lifted more erect my head to speak.

But there appeared a vision, which withdrew me
 So close to it, in order to be seen,
 That my confession I remembered not.

Such as through polished and transparent glass,
 Or waters crystalline and undisturbed,
 But not so deep as that their bed be lost,

Come back again the outlines of our faces
 So feeble, that a pearl on forehead white
 Comes not less speedily unto our eyes;

Such saw I many faces prompt to speak,
 So that I ran in error opposite
 To that which kindled love 'twixt man and fountain.

As soon as I became aware of them,
 Esteeming them as mirrored semblances,
 To see of whom they were, mine eyes I turned,

And nothing saw, and once more turned them forward
 Direct into the light of my sweet Guide,
 Who smiling kindled in her holy eyes.

"M
arvel thou not," she said to me, "because
 I smile at this thy puerile conceit,
 Since on the truth it trusts not yet its foot,

But turns thee, as 'tis wont, on emptiness.
 True substances are these which thou beholdest,
 Here relegate for breaking of some vow.

Therefore speak with them, listen and believe;
 For the true light, which giveth peace to them,
 Permits them not to turn from it their feet."

And I unto the shade that seemed most wishful
 To speak directed me, and I began,
 As one whom too great eagerness bewilders:

"O well-created spirit, who in the rays
 Of life eternal dost the sweetness taste
 Which being untasted ne'er is comprehended,

Grateful 'twill be to me, if thou content me
 Both with thy name and with your destiny."
 Whereat she promptly and with laughing eyes:

"Our charity doth never shut the doors
 Against a just desire, except as one
 Who wills that all her court be like herself.

I was a virgin sister in the world;
 And if thy mind doth contemplate me well,
 The being more fair will not conceal me from thee,

But thou shalt recognise I am Piccarda,
 Who, stationed here among these other blessed,
 Myself am blessed in the slowest sphere.

All our affections, that alone inflamed
 Are in the pleasure of the Holy Ghost,
 Rejoice at being of his order formed;

And this allotment, which appears so low,
 Therefore is given us, because our vows
 Have been neglected and in some part void."

Whence I to her: "In your miraculous aspects
 There shines I know not what of the divine,
 Which doth transform you from our first conceptions.

Therefore I was not swift in my remembrance;
 But what thou tellest me now aids me so,
 That the refiguring is easier to me.

But tell me, ye who in this place are happy,
 Are you desirous of a higher place,
 To see more or to make yourselves more friends?"

First with those other shades she smiled a little;
 Thereafter answered me so full of gladness,
 She seemed to burn in the first fire of love:

"Brother, our will is quieted by virtue
 Of charity, that makes 
us wish alone
 For what we have, nor gives us thirst for more.

If to be more exalted we aspired,
 Discordant would our aspirations be
 Unto the will of Him who here secludes us;

Which thou shalt see finds no place in these circles,
 If being in charity is needful here,
 And if thou lookest well into its nature;

Nay, 'tis essential to this blest existence
 To keep itself within the will divine,
 Whereby our very wishes are made one;

So that, as we are station above station
 Throughout this realm, to all the realm 'tis pleasing,
 As to the King, who makes his will our will.

And his will is our peace; this is the sea
 To which is moving onward whatsoever
 It doth create, and all that nature makes."

Then it was clear to me how everywhere
 In heaven is Paradise, although the grace
 Of good supreme there rain not in one measure.

But as it comes to pass, if one food sates,
 And for another still remains the longing,
 We ask for this, and that decline with thanks,

E'en thus did I; with gesture and with word,
 To learn from her what was the web wherein
 She did not ply the shuttle to the end.

"A perfect life and merit high in-heaven
 A lady o'er us," said she, "by whose rule
 Down in your world they vest and veil themselves,

That until death they may both watch and sleep
 Beside that Spouse who every vow accepts
 Which charity conformeth to his pleasure.

To follow her, in girlhood from the world
 I fled, and in her habit shut myself,
 And pledged me to the pathway of her sect.

Then men accustomed unto evil more
 Than unto good, from the sweet cloister tore me;
 God knows what afterward my life became.

This other splendour, which to thee reveals
 Itself on my right side, and is enkindled
 With all the illumination of our sphere,

What of myself I say applies to her;
 A nun was she, and likewise from her head
 Was ta'en the shadow of the sacred wimple.

But when she too was to the world returned
 Against her wishes and against good usage,
 Of the heart's veil she never was divested.

Of great Costanza this is t
he effulgence,
 Who from the second wind of Suabia
 Brought forth the third and latest puissance."

Thus unto me she spake, and then began
 "Ave Maria" singing, and in singing
 Vanished, as through deep water something heavy.

My sight, that followed her as long a time
 As it was possible, when it had lost her
 Turned round unto the mark of more desire,

And wholly unto Beatrice reverted;
 But she such lightnings flashed into mine eyes,
 That at the first my sight endured it not;

And this in questioning more backward made me.

Paradiso: Canto IV

Between two viands, equally removed
 And tempting, a free man would die of hunger
 Ere either he could bring unto his teeth.

So would a lamb between the ravenings
 Of two fierce wolves stand fearing both alike;
 And so would stand a dog between two does.

Hence, if I held my peace, myself I blame not,
 Impelled in equal measure by my doubts,
 Since it must be so, nor do I commend.

I held my peace; but my desire was painted
 Upon my face, and questioning with that
 More fervent far than by articulate speech.

Beatrice did as Daniel had done
 Relieving Nebuchadnezzar from the wrath
 Which rendered him unjustly merciless,

And said: "Well see I how attracteth thee
 One and the other wish, so that thy care
 Binds itself so that forth it does not breathe.

Thou arguest, if good will be permanent,
 The violence of others, for what reason
 Doth it decrease the measure of my merit?

Again for doubting furnish thee occasion
 Souls seeming to return unto the stars,
 According to the sentiment of Plato.

These are the questions which upon thy wish
 Are thrusting equally; and therefore first
 Will I treat that which hath the most of gall.

He of the Seraphim most absorbed in God,
 Moses, and Samuel, and whichever John
 Thou mayst select, I say, and even Mary,

Have not in any other heaven their seats,
 Than have those spirits that just appeared to thee,
 Nor of existence more or fewer years;

But all make beautiful the primal circle,
 And have sweet life in different degrees,
 By
 feeling more or less the eternal breath.

They showed themselves here, not because allotted
 This sphere has been to them, but to give sign
 Of the celestial which is least exalted.

To speak thus is adapted to your mind,
 Since only through the sense it apprehendeth
 What then it worthy makes of intellect.

On this account the Scripture condescends
 Unto your faculties, and feet and hands
 To God attributes, and means something else;

And Holy Church under an aspect human
 Gabriel and Michael represent to you,
 And him who made Tobias whole again.

That which Timaeus argues of the soul
 Doth not resemble that which here is seen,
 Because it seems that as he speaks he thinks.

He says the soul unto its star returns,
 Believing it to have been severed thence
 Whenever nature gave it as a form.

Perhaps his doctrine is of other guise
 Than the words sound, and possibly may be
 With meaning that is not to be derided.

If he doth mean that to these wheels return
 The honour of their influence and the blame,
 Perhaps his bow doth hit upon some truth.

This principle ill understood once warped
 The whole world nearly, till it went astray
 Invoking Jove and Mercury and Mars.

The other doubt which doth disquiet thee
 Less venom has, for its malevolence
 Could never lead thee otherwhere from me.

That as unjust our justice should appear
 In eyes of mortals, is an argument
 Of faith, and not of sin heretical.

But still, that your perception may be able
 To thoroughly penetrate this verity,
 As thou desirest, I will satisfy thee.

If it be violence when he who suffers
 Co-operates not with him who uses force,
 These souls were not on that account excused;

For will is never quenched unless it will,
 But operates as nature doth in fire
 If violence a thousand times distort it.

Hence, if it yieldeth more or less, it seconds
 The force; and these have done so, having power
 Of turning back unto the holy place.

If their will had been perfect, like to that
 Which Lawrence fast upon his gridiron held,
 And Mutius made severe
 to his own hand,

It would have urged them back along the road
 Whence they were dragged, as soon as they were free;
 But such a solid will is all too rare.

And by these words, if thou hast gathered them
 As thou shouldst do, the argument is refuted
 That would have still annoyed thee many times.

But now another passage runs across
 Before thine eyes, and such that by thyself
 Thou couldst not thread it ere thou wouldst be weary.

I have for certain put into thy mind
 That soul beatified could never lie,
 For it is near the primal Truth,

And then thou from Piccarda might'st have heard
 Costanza kept affection for the veil,
 So that she seemeth here to contradict me.

Many times, brother, has it come to pass,
 That, to escape from peril, with reluctance
 That has been done it was not right to do,

E'en as Alcmaeon (who, being by his father
 Thereto entreated, his own mother slew)
 Not to lose pity pitiless became.

At this point I desire thee to remember
 That force with will commingles, and they cause
 That the offences cannot be excused.

Will absolute consenteth not to evil;
 But in so far consenteth as it fears,
 If it refrain, to fall into more harm.

Hence when Piccarda uses this expression,
 She meaneth the will absolute, and I
 The other, so that both of us speak truth."

Such was the flowing of the holy river
 That issued from the fount whence springs all truth;
 This put to rest my wishes one and all.

"O love of the first lover, O divine,"
 Said I forthwith, "whose speech inundates me
 And warms me so, it more and more revives me,

My own affection is not so profound
 As to suffice in rendering grace for grace;
 Let Him, who sees and can, thereto respond.

Well I perceive that never sated is
 Our intellect unless the Truth illume it,
 Beyond which nothing true expands itself.

It rests therein, as wild beast in his lair,
 When it attains it; and it can attain it;
 If not, then each desire would frustrate be.

Therefore springs up, in fashion of a shoot,
 Doubt at the foot of truth; and this is natur
e,
 Which to the top from height to height impels us.

This doth invite me, this assurance give me
 With reverence, Lady, to inquire of you
 Another truth, which is obscure to me.

I wish to know if man can satisfy you
 For broken vows with other good deeds, so
 That in your balance they will not be light."

Beatrice gazed upon me with her eyes
 Full of the sparks of love, and so divine,
 That, overcome my power, I turned my back

And almost lost myself with eyes downcast.

Paradiso: Canto V

"If in the heat of love I flame upon thee
 Beyond the measure that on earth is seen,
 So that the valour of thine eyes I vanquish,

Marvel thou not thereat; for this proceeds
 From perfect sight, which as it apprehends
 To the good apprehended moves its feet.

Well I perceive how is already shining
 Into thine intellect the eternal light,
 That only seen enkindles always love;

And if some other thing your love seduce,
 'Tis nothing but a vestige of the same,
 Ill understood, which there is shining through.

Thou fain wouldst know if with another service
 For broken vow can such return be made
 As to secure the soul from further claim."

This Canto thus did Beatrice begin;
 And, as a man who breaks not off his speech,
 Continued thus her holy argument:

"The greatest gift that in his largess God
 Creating made, and unto his own goodness
 Nearest conformed, and that which he doth prize

Most highly, is the freedom of the will,
 Wherewith the creatures of intelligence
 Both all and only were and are endowed.

Now wilt thou see, if thence thou reasonest,
 The high worth of a vow, if it he made
 So that when thou consentest God consents:

For, closing between God and man the compact,
 A sacrifice is of this treasure made,
 Such as I say, and made by its own act.

What can be rendered then as compensation?
 Think'st thou to make good use of what thou'st offered,
 With gains ill gotten thou wouldst do good deed.

Now art thou certain of the greater point;
 But because Holy Church in this dispenses,
 Which seems against the truth w
hich I have shown thee,

Behoves thee still to sit awhile at table,
 Because the solid food which thou hast taken
 Requireth further aid for thy digestion.

Open thy mind to that which I reveal,
 And fix it there within; for 'tis not knowledge,
 The having heard without retaining it.

In the essence of this sacrifice two things
 Convene together; and the one is that
 Of which 'tis made, the other is the agreement.

This last for evermore is cancelled not
 Unless complied with, and concerning this
 With such precision has above been spoken.

Therefore it was enjoined upon the Hebrews
 To offer still, though sometimes what was offered
 Might be commuted, as thou ought'st to know.

The other, which is known to thee as matter,
 May well indeed be such that one errs not
 If it for other matter be exchanged.

But let none shift the burden on his shoulder
 At his arbitrament, without the turning
 Both of the white and of the yellow key;

And every permutation deem as foolish,
 If in the substitute the thing relinquished,
 As the four is in six, be not contained.

Therefore whatever thing has so great weight
 In value that it drags down every balance,
 Cannot be satisfied with other spending.

Let mortals never take a vow in jest;
 Be faithful and not blind in doing that,
 As Jephthah was in his first offering,

Whom more beseemed to say, 'I have done wrong,
 Than to do worse by keeping; and as foolish
 Thou the great leader of the Greeks wilt find,

Whence wept Iphigenia her fair face,
 And made for her both wise and simple weep,
 Who heard such kind of worship spoken of.'

Christians, be ye more serious in your movements;
 Be ye not like a feather at each wind,
 And think not every water washes you.

Ye have the Old and the New Testament,
 And the Pastor of the Church who guideth you
 Let this suffice you unto your salvation.

If evil appetite cry aught else to you,
 Be ye as men, and not as silly sheep,
 So that the Jew among you may not mock you.

Be ye not as the lamb that doth abandon
 Its mother's milk, and frolic
some and simple
 Combats at its own pleasure with itself."

Thus Beatrice to me even as I write it;
 Then all desireful turned herself again
 To that part where the world is most alive.

Her silence and her change of countenance
 Silence imposed upon my eager mind,
 That had already in advance new questions;

And as an arrow that upon the mark
 Strikes ere the bowstring quiet hath become,
 So did we speed into the second realm.

My Lady there so joyful I beheld,
 As into the brightness of that heaven she entered,
 More luminous thereat the planet grew;

And if the star itself was changed and smiled,
 What became I, who by my nature am
 Exceeding mutable in every guise!

As, in a fish-pond which is pure and tranquil,
 The fishes draw to that which from without
 Comes in such fashion that their food they deem it;

So I beheld more than a thousand splendours
 Drawing towards us, and in each was heard:
 "Lo, this is she who shall increase our love."

And as each one was coming unto us,
 Full of beatitude the shade was seen,
 By the effulgence clear that issued from it.

Think, Reader, if what here is just beginning
 No farther should proceed, how thou wouldst have
 An agonizing need of knowing more;

And of thyself thou'lt see how I from these
 Was in desire of hearing their conditions,
 As they unto mine eyes were manifest.

"O thou well-born, unto whom Grace concedes
 To see the thrones of the eternal triumph,
 Or ever yet the warfare be abandoned

With light that through the whole of heaven is spread
 Kindled are we, and hence if thou desirest
 To know of us, at thine own pleasure sate thee."

Thus by some one among those holy spirits
 Was spoken, and by Beatrice: "Speak, speak
 Securely, and believe them even as Gods."

"Well I perceive how thou dost nest thyself
 In thine own light, and drawest it from thine eyes,
 Because they coruscate when thou dost smile,

But know not who thou art, nor why thou hast,
 Spirit august, thy station in the sphere
 That veils itself to men in alien rays."

This said I in directio
n of the light
 Which first had spoken to me; whence it became
 By far more lucent than it was before.

Even as the sun, that doth conceal himself
 By too much light, when heat has worn away
 The tempering influence of the vapours dense,

By greater rapture thus concealed itself
 In its own radiance the figure saintly,
 And thus close, close enfolded answered me

In fashion as the following Canto sings.

Paradiso: Canto VI

"After that Constantine the eagle turned
 Against the course of heaven, which it had followed
 Behind the ancient who Lavinia took,

Two hundred years and more the bird of God
 In the extreme of Europe held itself,
 Near to the mountains whence it issued first;

And under shadow of the sacred plumes
 It governed there the world from hand to hand,
 And, changing thus, upon mine own alighted.

Caesar I was, and am Justinian,
 Who, by the will of primal Love I feel,
 Took from the laws the useless and redundant;

And ere unto the work I was attent,
 One nature to exist in Christ, not more,
 Believed, and with such faith was I contented.

But blessed Agapetus, he who was
 The supreme pastor, to the faith sincere
 Pointed me out the way by words of his.

Him I believed, and what was his assertion
 I now see clearly, even as thou seest
 Each contradiction to be false and true.

As soon as with the Church I moved my feet,
 God in his grace it pleased with this high task
 To inspire me, and I gave me wholly to it,

And to my Belisarius I commended
 The arms, to which was heaven's right hand so joined
 It was a signal that I should repose.

Now here to the first question terminates
 My answer; but the character thereof
 Constrains me to continue with a sequel,

In order that thou see with how great reason
 Men move against the standard sacrosanct,
 Both who appropriate and who oppose it.

Behold how great a power has made it worthy
 Of reverence, beginning from the hour
 When Pallas died to give it sovereignty.

Thou knowest it made in Alba its abode
 Three hundred years and upward, till at last
 The t
hree to three fought for it yet again.

Thou knowest what it achieved from Sabine wrong
 Down to Lucretia's sorrow, in seven kings
 O'ercoming round about the neighboring nations;

Thou knowest what it achieved, borne by the Romans
 Illustrious against Brennus, against Pyrrhus,
 Against the other princes and confederates.

Torquatus thence and Quinctius, who from locks
 Unkempt was named, Decii and Fabii,
 Received the fame I willingly embalm;

It struck to earth the pride of the Arabians,
 Who, following Hannibal, had passed across
 The Alpine ridges, Po, from which thou glidest;

Beneath it triumphed while they yet were young
 Pompey and Scipio, and to the hill
 Beneath which thou wast born it bitter seemed;

Then, near unto the time when heaven had willed
 To bring the whole world to its mood serene,
 Did Caesar by the will of Rome assume it.

What it achieved from Var unto the Rhine,
 Isere beheld and Saone, beheld the Seine,
 And every valley whence the Rhone is filled;

What it achieved when it had left Ravenna,
 And leaped the Rubicon, was such a flight
 That neither tongue nor pen could follow it.

Round towards Spain it wheeled its legions; then
 Towards Durazzo, and Pharsalia smote
 That to the calid Nile was felt the pain.

Antandros and the Simois, whence it started,
 It saw again, and there where Hector lies,
 And ill for Ptolemy then roused itself.

From thence it came like lightning upon Juba;
 Then wheeled itself again into your West,
 Where the Pompeian clarion it heard.

From what it wrought with the next standard-bearer
 Brutus and Cassius howl in Hell together,
 And Modena and Perugia dolent were;

Still doth the mournful Cleopatra weep
 Because thereof, who, fleeing from before it,
 Took from the adder sudden and black death.

With him it ran even to the Red Sea shore;
 With him it placed the world in so great peace,
 That unto Janus was his temple closed.

But what the standard that has made me speak
 Achieved before, and after should achieve
 Throughout the mortal realm that lies beneath it
,

Becometh in appearance mean and dim,
 If in the hand of the third Caesar seen
 With eye unclouded and affection pure,

Because the living Justice that inspires me
 Granted it, in the hand of him I speak of,
 The glory of doing vengeance for its wrath.

Now here attend to what I answer thee;
 Later it ran with Titus to do vengeance
 Upon the vengeance of the ancient sin.

And when the tooth of Lombardy had bitten
 The Holy Church, then underneath its wings
 Did Charlemagne victorious succor her.

Now hast thou power to judge of such as those
 Whom I accused above, and of their crimes,
 Which are the cause of all your miseries.

To the public standard one the yellow lilies
 Opposes, the other claims it for a party,
 So that 'tis hard to see which sins the most.

Let, let the Ghibellines ply their handicraft
 Beneath some other standard; for this ever
 Ill follows he who it and justice parts.

And let not this new Charles e'er strike it down,
 He and his Guelfs, but let him fear the talons
 That from a nobler lion stripped the fell.

Already oftentimes the sons have wept
 The father's crime; and let him not believe
 That God will change His scutcheon for the lilies.

This little planet doth adorn itself
 With the good spirits that have active been,
 That fame and honour might come after them;

And whensoever the desires mount thither,
 Thus deviating, must perforce the rays
 Of the true love less vividly mount upward.

But in commensuration of our wages
 With our desert is portion of our joy,
 Because we see them neither less nor greater.

Herein doth living Justice sweeten so
 Affection in us, that for evermore
 It cannot warp to any iniquity.

Voices diverse make up sweet melodies;
 So in this life of ours the seats diverse
 Render sweet harmony among these spheres;

And in the compass of this present pearl
 Shineth the sheen of Romeo, of whom
 The grand and beauteous work was ill rewarded.

But the Provencals who against him wrought,
 They have not laughed, and therefore ill goes he
 Who makes his hurt of the 
good deeds of others.

Four daughters, and each one of them a queen,
 Had Raymond Berenger, and this for him
 Did Romeo, a poor man and a pilgrim;

And then malicious words incited him
 To summon to a reckoning this just man,
 Who rendered to him seven and five for ten.

Then he departed poor and stricken in years,
 And if the world could know the heart he had,
 In begging bit by bit his livelihood,

Though much it laud him, it would laud him more."

Paradiso: Canto VII

"Osanna sanctus Deus Sabaoth,
 Superillustrans claritate tua
 Felices ignes horum malahoth!"

In this wise, to his melody returning,
 This substance, upon which a double light
 Doubles itself, was seen by me to sing,

And to their dance this and the others moved,
 And in the manner of swift-hurrying sparks
 Veiled themselves from me with a sudden distance.

Doubting was I, and saying, "Tell her, tell her,"
 Within me, "tell her," saying, "tell my Lady,"
 Who slakes my thirst with her sweet effluences;

And yet that reverence which doth lord it over
 The whole of me only by B and ICE,
 Bowed me again like unto one who drowses.

Short while did Beatrice endure me thus;
 And she began, lighting me with a smile
 Such as would make one happy in the fire:

"According to infallible advisement,
 After what manner a just vengeance justly
 Could be avenged has put thee upon thinking,

But I will speedily thy mind unloose;
 And do thou listen, for these words of mine
 Of a great doctrine will a present make thee.

By not enduring on the power that wills
 Curb for his good, that man who ne'er was born,
 Damning himself damned all his progeny;

Whereby the human species down below
 Lay sick for many centuries in great error,
 Till to descend it pleased the Word of God

To where the nature, which from its own Maker
 Estranged itself, he joined to him in person
 By the sole act of his eternal love.

Now unto what is said direct thy sight;
 This nature when united to its Maker,
 Such as created, was sincere and good;

But by itself alone was banished forth
 From
 Paradise, because it turned aside
 Out of the way of truth and of its life.

Therefore the penalty the cross held out,
 If measured by the nature thus assumed,
 None ever yet with so great justice stung,

And none was ever of so great injustice,
 Considering who the Person was that suffered,
 Within whom such a nature was contracted.

From one act therefore issued things diverse;
 To God and to the Jews one death was pleasing;
 Earth trembled at it and the Heaven was opened.

It should no longer now seem difficult
 To thee, when it is said that a just vengeance
 By a just court was afterward avenged.

But now do I behold thy mind entangled
 From thought to thought within a knot, from which
 With great desire it waits to free itself.

Thou sayest, 'Well discern I what I hear;
 But it is hidden from me why God willed
 For our redemption only this one mode.'

Buried remaineth, brother, this decree
 Unto the eyes of every one whose nature
 Is in the flame of love not yet adult.

Verily, inasmuch as at this mark
 One gazes long and little is discerned,
 Wherefore this mode was worthiest will I say.

Goodness Divine, which from itself doth spurn
 All envy, burning in itself so sparkles
 That the eternal beauties it unfolds.

Whate'er from this immediately distils
 Has afterwards no end, for ne'er removed
 Is its impression when it sets its seal.

Whate'er from this immediately rains down
 Is wholly free, because it is not subject
 Unto the influences of novel things.

The more conformed thereto, the more it pleases;
 For the blest ardour that irradiates all things
 In that most like itself is most vivacious.

With all of these things has advantaged been
 The human creature; and if one be wanting,
 From his nobility he needs must fall.

'Tis sin alone which doth disfranchise him,
 And render him unlike the Good Supreme,
 So that he little with its light is blanched,

And to his dignity no more returns,
 Unless he fill up where transgression empties
 With righteous pains for criminal delights.

Your nature when it sinne
d so utterly
 In its own seed, out of these dignities
 Even as out of Paradise was driven,

Nor could itself recover, if thou notest
 With nicest subtilty, by any way,
 Except by passing one of these two fords:

Either that God through clemency alone
 Had pardon granted, or that man himself
 Had satisfaction for his folly made.

Fix now thine eye deep into the abyss
 Of the eternal counsel, to my speech
 As far as may be fastened steadfastly!

Man in his limitations had not power
 To satisfy, not having power to sink
 In his humility obeying then,

Far as he disobeying thought to rise;
 And for this reason man has been from power
 Of satisfying by himself excluded.

Therefore it God behoved in his own ways
 Man to restore unto his perfect life,
 I say in one, or else in both of them.

But since the action of the doer is
 So much more grateful, as it more presents
 The goodness of the heart from which it issues,

Goodness Divine, that doth imprint the world,
 Has been contented to proceed by each
 And all its ways to lift you up again;

Nor 'twixt the first day and the final night
 Such high and such magnificent proceeding
 By one or by the other was or shall be;

For God more bounteous was himself to give
 To make man able to uplift himself,
 Than if he only of himself had pardoned;

And all the other modes were insufficient
 For justice, were it not the Son of God
 Himself had humbled to become incarnate.

Now, to fill fully each desire of thine,
 Return I to elucidate one place,
 In order that thou there mayst see as I do.

Thou sayst: 'I see the air, I see the fire,
 The water, and the earth, and all their mixtures
 Come to corruption, and short while endure;

And these things notwithstanding were created;'
 Therefore if that which I have said were true,
 They should have been secure against corruption.

The Angels, brother, and the land sincere
 In which thou art, created may be called
 Just as they are in their entire existence;

But all the elements which thou hast named,
 And all those things which out of 
them are made,
 By a created virtue are informed.

Created was the matter which they have;
 Created was the informing influence
 Within these stars that round about them go.

The soul of every brute and of the plants
 By its potential temperament attracts
 The ray and motion of the holy lights;

But your own life immediately inspires
 Supreme Beneficence, and enamours it
 So with herself, it evermore desires her.

And thou from this mayst argue furthermore
 Your resurrection, if thou think again
 How human flesh was fashioned at that time

When the first parents both of them were made."

Paradiso: Canto VIII

The world used in its peril to believe
 That the fair Cypria delirious love
 Rayed out, in the third epicycle turning;

Wherefore not only unto her paid honour
 Of sacrifices and of votive cry
 The ancient nations in the ancient error,

But both Dione honoured they and Cupid,
 That as her mother, this one as her son,
 And said that he had sat in Dido's lap;

And they from her, whence I beginning take,
 Took the denomination of the star
 That woos the sun, now following, now in front.

I was not ware of our ascending to it;
 But of our being in it gave full faith
 My Lady whom I saw more beauteous grow.

And as within a flame a spark is seen,
 And as within a voice a voice discerned,
 When one is steadfast, and one comes and goes,

Within that light beheld I other lamps
 Move in a circle, speeding more and less,
 Methinks in measure of their inward vision.

From a cold cloud descended never winds,
 Or visible or not, so rapidly
 They would not laggard and impeded seem

To any one who had those lights divine
 Seen come towards us, leaving the gyration
 Begun at first in the high Seraphim.

And behind those that most in front appeared
 Sounded "Osanna!" so that never since
 To hear again was I without desire.

Then unto us more nearly one approached,
 And it alone began: "We all are ready
 Unto thy pleasure, that thou joy in us.

We turn around with the celestial Princes,
 One gyre and one gyration and one thir
st,
 To whom thou in the world of old didst say,

'Ye who, intelligent, the third heaven are moving;'
 And are so full of love, to pleasure thee
 A little quiet will not be less sweet."

After these eyes of mine themselves had offered
 Unto my Lady reverently, and she
 Content and certain of herself had made them,

Back to the light they turned, which so great promise
 Made of itself, and "Say, who art thou?" was
 My voice, imprinted with a great affection.

O how and how much I beheld it grow
 With the new joy that superadded was
 Unto its joys, as soon as I had spoken!

Thus changed, it said to me: "The world possessed me
 Short time below; and, if it had been more,
 Much evil will be which would not have been.

My gladness keepeth me concealed from thee,
 Which rayeth round about me, and doth hide me
 Like as a creature swathed in its own silk.

Much didst thou love me, and thou hadst good reason;
 For had I been below, I should have shown thee
 Somewhat beyond the foliage of my love.

That left-hand margin, which doth bathe itself
 In Rhone, when it is mingled with the Sorgue,
 Me for its lord awaited in due time,

And that horn of Ausonia, which is towned
 With Bari, with Gaeta and Catona,
 Whence Tronto and Verde in the sea disgorge.

Already flashed upon my brow the crown
 Of that dominion which the Danube waters
 After the German borders it abandons;

And beautiful Trinacria, that is murky
 'Twixt Pachino and Peloro, (on the gulf
 Which greatest scath from Eurus doth receive,)

Not through Typhoeus, but through nascent sulphur,
 Would have awaited her own monarchs still,
 Through me from Charles descended and from Rudolph,

If evil lordship, that exasperates ever
 The subject populations, had not moved
 Palermo to the outcry of 'Death! death!'

And if my brother could but this foresee,
 The greedy poverty of Catalonia
 Straight would he flee, that it might not molest him;

For verily 'tis needful to provide,
 Through him or other, so that on his bark
 Already freighted no more freight be placed.

His natu
re, which from liberal covetous
 Descended, such a soldiery would need
 As should not care for hoarding in a chest."

"Because I do believe the lofty joy
 Thy speech infuses into me, my Lord,
 Where every good thing doth begin and end

Thou seest as I see it, the more grateful
 Is it to me; and this too hold I dear,
 That gazing upon God thou dost discern it.

Glad hast thou made me; so make clear to me,
 Since speaking thou hast stirred me up to doubt,
 How from sweet seed can bitter issue forth."

This I to him; and he to me: "If I
 Can show to thee a truth, to what thou askest
 Thy face thou'lt hold as thou dost hold thy back.

The Good which all the realm thou art ascending
 Turns and contents, maketh its providence
 To be a power within these bodies vast;

And not alone the natures are foreseen
 Within the mind that in itself is perfect,
 But they together with their preservation.

For whatsoever thing this bow shoots forth
 Falls foreordained unto an end foreseen,
 Even as a shaft directed to its mark.

If that were not, the heaven which thou dost walk
 Would in such manner its effects produce,
 That they no longer would be arts, but ruins.

This cannot be, if the Intelligences
 That keep these stars in motion are not maimed,
 And maimed the First that has not made them perfect.

Wilt thou this truth have clearer made to thee?"
 And I: "Not so; for 'tis impossible
 That nature tire, I see, in what is needful."

Whence he again: "Now say, would it be worse
 For men on earth were they not citizens?"
 "Yes," I replied; "and here I ask no reason."

"And can they be so, if below they live not
 Diversely unto offices diverse?
 No, if your master writeth well for you."

So came he with deductions to this point;
 Then he concluded: "Therefore it behoves
 The roots of your effects to be diverse.

Hence one is Solon born, another Xerxes,
 Another Melchisedec, and another he
 Who, flying through the air, his son did lose.

Revolving Nature, which a signet is
 To mortal wax, doth practise well her art,
 But not one inn
 distinguish from another;

Thence happens it that Esau differeth
 In seed from Jacob; and Quirinus comes
 From sire so vile that he is given to Mars.

A generated nature its own way
 Would always make like its progenitors,
 If Providence divine were not triumphant.

Now that which was behind thee is before thee;
 But that thou know that I with thee am pleased,
 With a corollary will I mantle thee.

Evermore nature, if it fortune find
 Discordant to it, like each other seed
 Out of its region, maketh evil thrift;

And if the world below would fix its mind
 On the foundation which is laid by nature,
 Pursuing that, 'twould have the people good.

But you unto religion wrench aside
 Him who was born to gird him with the sword,
 And make a king of him who is for sermons;

Therefore your footsteps wander from the road."

Paradiso: Canto IX

Beautiful Clemence, after that thy Charles
 Had me enlightened, he narrated to me
 The treacheries his seed should undergo;

But said: "Be still and let the years roll round;"
 So I can only say, that lamentation
 Legitimate shall follow on your wrongs.

And of that holy light the life already
 Had to the Sun which fills it turned again,
 As to that good which for each thing sufficeth.

Ah, souls deceived, and creatures impious,
 Who from such good do turn away your hearts,
 Directing upon vanity your foreheads!

And now, behold, another of those splendours
 Approached me, and its will to pleasure me
 It signified by brightening outwardly.

The eyes of Beatrice, that fastened were
 Upon me, as before, of dear assent
 To my desire assurance gave to me.

"Ah, bring swift compensation to my wish,
 Thou blessed spirit," I said, "and give me proof
 That what I think in thee I can reflect!"

Whereat the light, that still was new to me,
 Out of its depths, whence it before was singing,
 As one delighted to do good, continued:

"Within that region of the land depraved
 Of Italy, that lies between Rialto
 And fountain-heads of Brenta and of Piava,

Rises a hill, and mounts not very high,
 W
herefrom descended formerly a torch
 That made upon that region great assault.

Out of one root were born both I and it;
 Cunizza was I called, and here I shine
 Because the splendour of this star o'ercame me.

But gladly to myself the cause I pardon
 Of my allotment, and it does not grieve me;
 Which would perhaps seem strong unto your vulgar.

Of this so luculent and precious jewel,
 Which of our heaven is nearest unto me,
 Great fame remained; and ere it die away

This hundredth year shall yet quintupled be.
 See if man ought to make him excellent,
 So that another life the first may leave!

And thus thinks not the present multitude
 Shut in by Adige and Tagliamento,
 Nor yet for being scourged is penitent.

But soon 'twill be that Padua in the marsh
 Will change the water that Vicenza bathes,
 Because the folk are stubborn against duty;

And where the Sile and Cagnano join
 One lordeth it, and goes with lofty head,
 For catching whom e'en now the net is making.

Feltro moreover of her impious pastor
 Shall weep the crime, which shall so monstrous be
 That for the like none ever entered Malta.

Ample exceedingly would be the vat
 That of the Ferrarese could hold the blood,
 And weary who should weigh it ounce by ounce,

Of which this courteous priest shall make a gift
 To show himself a partisan; and such gifts
 Will to the living of the land conform.

Above us there are mirrors, Thrones you call them,
 From which shines out on us God Judicant,
 So that this utterance seems good to us."

Here it was silent, and it had the semblance
 Of being turned elsewhither, by the wheel
 On which it entered as it was before.

The other joy, already known to me,
 Became a thing transplendent in my sight,
 As a fine ruby smitten by the sun.

Through joy effulgence is acquired above,
 As here a smile; but down below, the shade
 Outwardly darkens, as the mind is sad.

"God seeth all things, and in Him, blest spirit,
 Thy sight is," said I, "so that never will
 Of his can possibly from thee be hidden;

Thy voice, then, that for
 ever makes the heavens
 Glad, with the singing of those holy fires
 Which of their six wings make themselves a cowl,

Wherefore does it not satisfy my longings?
 Indeed, I would not wait thy questioning
 If I in thee were as thou art in me."

"The greatest of the valleys where the water
 Expands itself," forthwith its words began,
 "That sea excepted which the earth engarlands,

Between discordant shores against the sun
 Extends so far, that it meridian makes
 Where it was wont before to make the horizon.

I was a dweller on that valley's shore
 'Twixt Ebro and Magra that with journey short
 Doth from the Tuscan part the Genoese.

With the same sunset and same sunrise nearly
 Sit Buggia and the city whence I was,
 That with its blood once made the harbour hot.

Folco that people called me unto whom
 My name was known; and now with me this heaven
 Imprints itself, as I did once with it;

For more the daughter of Belus never burned,
 Offending both Sichaeus and Creusa,
 Than I, so long as it became my locks,

Nor yet that Rodophean, who deluded
 was by Demophoon, nor yet Alcides,
 When Iole he in his heart had locked.

Yet here is no repenting, but we smile,
 Not at the fault, which comes not back to mind,
 But at the power which ordered and foresaw.

Here we behold the art that doth adorn
 With such affection, and the good discover
 Whereby the world above turns that below.

But that thou wholly satisfied mayst bear
 Thy wishes hence which in this sphere are born,
 Still farther to proceed behoveth me.

Thou fain wouldst know who is within this light
 That here beside me thus is scintillating,
 Even as a sunbeam in the limpid water.

Then know thou, that within there is at rest
 Rahab, and being to our order joined,
 With her in its supremest grade 'tis sealed.

Into this heaven, where ends the shadowy cone
 Cast by your world, before all other souls
 First of Christ's triumph was she taken up.

Full meet it was to leave her in some heaven,
 Even as a palm of the high victory
 Which he acquired with one palm and 
the other,

Because she favoured the first glorious deed
 Of Joshua upon the Holy Land,
 That little stirs the memory of the Pope.

Thy city, which an offshoot is of him
 Who first upon his Maker turned his back,
 And whose ambition is so sorely wept,

Brings forth and scatters the accursed flower
 Which both the sheep and lambs hath led astray
 Since it has turned the shepherd to a wolf.

For this the Evangel and the mighty Doctors
 Are derelict, and only the Decretals
 So studied that it shows upon their margins.

On this are Pope and Cardinals intent;
 Their meditations reach not Nazareth,
 There where his pinions Gabriel unfolded;

But Vatican and the other parts elect
 Of Rome, which have a cemetery been
 Unto the soldiery that followed Peter

Shall soon be free from this adultery."

Paradiso: Canto X

Looking into his Son with all the Love
 Which each of them eternally breathes forth,
 The Primal and unutterable Power

Whate'er before the mind or eye revolves
 With so much order made, there can be none
 Who this beholds without enjoying Him.

Lift up then, Reader, to the lofty wheels
 With me thy vision straight unto that part
 Where the one motion on the other strikes,

And there begin to contemplate with joy
 That Master's art, who in himself so loves it
 That never doth his eye depart therefrom.

Behold how from that point goes branching off
 The oblique circle, which conveys the planets,
 To satisfy the world that calls upon them;

And if their pathway were not thus inflected,
 Much virtue in the heavens would be in vain,
 And almost every power below here dead.

If from the straight line distant more or less
 Were the departure, much would wanting be
 Above and underneath of mundane order.

Remain now, Reader, still upon thy bench,
 In thought pursuing that which is foretasted,
 If thou wouldst jocund be instead of weary.

I've set before thee; henceforth feed thyself,
 For to itself diverteth all my care
 That theme whereof I have been made the scribe.

The greatest of the ministers of nature,
 Who wi
th the power of heaven the world imprints
 And measures with his light the time for us,

With that part which above is called to mind
 Conjoined, along the spirals was revolving,
 Where each time earlier he presents himself;

And I was with him; but of the ascending
 I was not conscious, saving as a man
 Of a first thought is conscious ere it come;

And Beatrice, she who is seen to pass
 From good to better, and so suddenly
 That not by time her action is expressed,

How lucent in herself must she have been!
 And what was in the sun, wherein I entered,
 Apparent not by colour but by light,

I, though I call on genius, art, and practice,
 Cannot so tell that it could be imagined;
 Believe one can, and let him long to see it.

And if our fantasies too lowly are
 For altitude so great, it is no marvel,
 Since o'er the sun was never eye could go.

Such in this place was the fourth family
 Of the high Father, who forever sates it,
 Showing how he breathes forth and how begets.

And Beatrice began: "Give thanks, give thanks
 Unto the Sun of Angels, who to this
 Sensible one has raised thee by his grace!"

Never was heart of mortal so disposed
 To worship, nor to give itself to God
 With all its gratitude was it so ready,

As at those words did I myself become;
 And all my love was so absorbed in Him,
 That in oblivion Beatrice was eclipsed.

Nor this displeased her; but she smiled at it
 So that the splendour of her laughing eyes
 My single mind on many things divided.

Lights many saw I, vivid and triumphant,
 Make us a centre and themselves a circle,
 More sweet in voice than luminous in aspect.

Thus girt about the daughter of Latona
 We sometimes see, when pregnant is the air,
 So that it holds the thread which makes her zone.

Within the court of Heaven, whence I return,
 Are many jewels found, so fair and precious
 They cannot be transported from the realm;

And of them was the singing of those lights.
 Who takes not wings that he may fly up thither,
 The tidings thence may from the dumb await!

As soon as singin
g thus those burning suns
 Had round about us whirled themselves three times,
 Like unto stars neighbouring the steadfast poles,

Ladies they seemed, not from the dance released,
 But who stop short, in silence listening
 Till they have gathered the new melody.

And within one I heard beginning: "When
 The radiance of grace, by which is kindled
 True love, and which thereafter grows by loving,

Within thee multiplied is so resplendent
 That it conducts thee upward by that stair,
 Where without reascending none descends,

Who should deny the wine out of his vial
 Unto thy thirst, in liberty were not
 Except as water which descends not seaward.

Fain wouldst thou know with what plants is enflowered
 This garland that encircles with delight
 The Lady fair who makes thee strong for heaven.

Of the lambs was I of the holy flock
 Which Dominic conducteth by a road
 Where well one fattens if he strayeth not.

He who is nearest to me on the right
 My brother and master was; and he Albertus
 Is of Cologne, I Thomas of Aquinum.

If thou of all the others wouldst be certain,
 Follow behind my speaking with thy sight
 Upward along the blessed garland turning.

That next effulgence issues from the smile
 Of Gratian, who assisted both the courts
 In such wise that it pleased in Paradise.

The other which near by adorns our choir
 That Peter was who, e'en as the poor widow,
 Offered his treasure unto Holy Church.

The fifth light, that among us is the fairest,
 Breathes forth from such a love, that all the world
 Below is greedy to learn tidings of it.

Within it is the lofty mind, where knowledge
 So deep was put, that, if the true be true,
 To see so much there never rose a second.

Thou seest next the lustre of that taper,
 Which in the flesh below looked most within
 The angelic nature and its ministry.

Within that other little light is smiling
 The advocate of the Christian centuries,
 Out of whose rhetoric Augustine was furnished.

Now if thou trainest thy mind's eye along
 From light to light pursuant of my praise,
 Wit
h thirst already of the eighth thou waitest.

By seeing every good therein exults
 The sainted soul, which the fallacious world
 Makes manifest to him who listeneth well;

The body whence 'twas hunted forth is lying
 Down in Cieldauro, and from martyrdom
 And banishment it came unto this peace.

See farther onward flame the burning breath
 Of Isidore, of Beda, and of Richard
 Who was in contemplation more than man.

This, whence to me returneth thy regard,
 The light is of a spirit unto whom
 In his grave meditations death seemed slow.

It is the light eternal of Sigier,
 Who, reading lectures in the Street of Straw,
 Did syllogize invidious verities."

Then, as a horologe that calleth us
 What time the Bride of God is rising up
 With matins to her Spouse that he may love her,

Wherein one part the other draws and urges,
 Ting! ting! resounding with so sweet a note,
 That swells with love the spirit well disposed,

Thus I beheld the glorious wheel move round,
 And render voice to voice, in modulation
 And sweetness that can not be comprehended,

Excepting there where joy is made eternal.

Paradiso: Canto XI

O Thou insensate care of mortal men,
 How inconclusive are the syllogisms
 That make thee beat thy wings in downward flight!

One after laws and one to aphorisms
 Was going, and one following the priesthood,
 And one to reign by force or sophistry,

And one in theft, and one in state affairs,
 One in the pleasures of the flesh involved
 Wearied himself, one gave himself to ease;

When I, from all these things emancipate,
 With Beatrice above there in the Heavens
 With such exceeding glory was received!

When each one had returned unto that point
 Within the circle where it was before,
 It stood as in a candlestick a candle;

And from within the effulgence which at first
 Had spoken unto me, I heard begin
 Smiling while it more luminous became:

"Even as I am kindled in its ray,
 So, looking into the Eternal Light,
 The occasion of thy thoughts I apprehend.

Thou doubtest, and wouldst have me to resift
 In lan
guage so extended and so open
 My speech, that to thy sense it may be plain,

Where just before I said, 'where well one fattens,'
 And where I said, 'there never rose a second;'
 And here 'tis needful we distinguish well.

The Providence, which governeth the world
 With counsel, wherein all created vision
 Is vanquished ere it reach unto the bottom,

(So that towards her own Beloved might go
 The bride of Him who, uttering a loud cry,
 Espoused her with his consecrated blood,

Self-confident and unto Him more faithful,)
 Two Princes did ordain in her behoof,
 Which on this side and that might be her guide.

The one was all seraphical in ardour;
 The other by his wisdom upon earth
 A splendour was of light cherubical.

One will I speak of, for of both is spoken
 In praising one, whichever may be taken,
 Because unto one end their labours were.

Between Tupino and the stream that falls
 Down from the hill elect of blessed Ubald,
 A fertile <DW72> of lofty mountain hangs,

From which Perugia feels the cold and heat
 Through Porta Sole, and behind it weep
 Gualdo and Nocera their grievous yoke.

From out that <DW72>, there where it breaketh most
 Its steepness, rose upon the world a sun
 As this one does sometimes from out the Ganges;

Therefore let him who speaketh of that place,
 Say not Ascesi, for he would say little,
 But Orient, if he properly would speak.

He was not yet far distant from his rising
 Before he had begun to make the earth
 Some comfort from his mighty virtue feel.

For he in youth his father's wrath incurred
 For certain Dame, to whom, as unto death,
 The gate of pleasure no one doth unlock;

And was before his spiritual court
 'Et coram patre' unto her united;
 Then day by day more fervently he loved her.

She, reft of her first husband, scorned, obscure,
 One thousand and one hundred years and more,
 Waited without a suitor till he came.

Naught it availed to hear, that with Amyclas
 Found her unmoved at sounding of his voice
 He who struck terror into all the world;

Naught it availed being c
onstant and undaunted,
 So that, when Mary still remained below,
 She mounted up with Christ upon the cross.

But that too darkly I may not proceed,
 Francis and Poverty for these two lovers
 Take thou henceforward in my speech diffuse.

Their concord and their joyous semblances,
 The love, the wonder, and the sweet regard,
 They made to be the cause of holy thoughts;

So much so that the venerable Bernard
 First bared his feet, and after so great peace
 Ran, and, in running, thought himself too slow.

O wealth unknown! O veritable good!
 Giles bares his feet, and bares his feet Sylvester
 Behind the bridegroom, so doth please the bride!

Then goes his way that father and that master,
 He and his Lady and that family
 Which now was girding on the humble cord;

Nor cowardice of heart weighed down his brow
 At being son of Peter Bernardone,
 Nor for appearing marvellously scorned;

But regally his hard determination
 To Innocent he opened, and from him
 Received the primal seal upon his Order.

After the people mendicant increased
 Behind this man, whose admirable life
 Better in glory of the heavens were sung,

Incoronated with a second crown
 Was through Honorius by the Eternal Spirit
 The holy purpose of this Archimandrite.

And when he had, through thirst of martyrdom,
 In the proud presence of the Sultan preached
 Christ and the others who came after him,

And, finding for conversion too unripe
 The folk, and not to tarry there in vain,
 Returned to fruit of the Italic grass,

On the rude rock 'twixt Tiber and the Arno
 From Christ did he receive the final seal,
 Which during two whole years his members bore.

When He, who chose him unto so much good,
 Was pleased to draw him up to the reward
 That he had merited by being lowly,

Unto his friars, as to the rightful heirs,
 His most dear Lady did he recommend,
 And bade that they should love her faithfully;

And from her bosom the illustrious soul
 Wished to depart, returning to its realm,
 And for its body wished no other bier.

Think now what man was he, who
<|endoftext|>
The Project Gutenberg Etext of Dante's Purgatory [Divine Comedy]
Translanted by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!

Please take a look at the important information in this header.
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
electronic path open for the next readers. Do not remove this.

**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**

**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**

*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*

Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
further information is included below. We need your donations.

Dante's Purgatory [Divine Comedy]

Translanted by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

August, 1997 [Etext #1002]

The Project Gutenberg Etext of Dante's Purgatory [Divine Comedy]
*****This file should be named 1002.txt or 1002.zip*****

This etext was prepared by Dennis McCarthy, Atlanta, GA.

We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
of the official release dates, for time for better editing.

Please note: neither this list nor its contents are final till
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month. A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
and editing by those who wish to do so. To be sure you have an
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
in the first week of the next month. Since our ftp program has
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
new copy has at least one byte more or less.

Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work. The
fifty hours is one conservative estimate for how long it we take
to get any etext selecte
d, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc. This
projected audience is one hundred million readers. If our value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-two text
files per month, or 384 more Etexts in 1997 for a total of 1000+
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
total should reach over 100 billion Etexts given away.

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Files by the December 31, 2001. [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
which is only 10% of the present number of computer users. 2001
should have at least twice as many computer users as that, so it
will require us reaching less than 5% of the users in 2001.

We need your donations more than ever!

All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/CMU": and are
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law. (CMU = Carnegie-
Mellon University).

For these and other matters, please mail to:

Project Gutenberg
P. O. Box 2782
Champaign, IL 61825

When all other email fails try our Executive Director:
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>

We would prefer to send you this information by email
(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).

******
If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please
FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
[Mac users, do NOT point and click. . .type]

ftp uiarchive.cso.uiuc.edu
login: anonymous
password: your@login
cd etext/etext90 through /etext96
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]
dir [to see files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
GET INDEX?00.GUT
for a list of books
and
GET NEW GUT for general information
and
MGET GUT* for newsletters.

**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
(Three Pages)

***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here? You know: lawyers.

They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault. So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you. It also tells you how
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
this "Small Print!" statement. If you do not, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from. If you received this etext on a physical
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Carnegie-Mellon University (the "Project"). Among other
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
works. Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
medium they may be on may contain "Defects". Among other
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement
 or Refund" described below,
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from. If you received it
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy. If you received it electronically, such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS". NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1] Only give 
exact copies of it. Among other things, this
 requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
 etext or this "small print!" statement. You may however,
 if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
 binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
 including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
 cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
 *EITHER*:

 [*] The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
 does *not* contain characters other than those
 intended by the author of the work, although tilde
 (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
 be used to convey punctuation intended by the
 author, and additional characters may be used to
 indicate hypertext links; OR

 [*] The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
 no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
 form by the program that displays the etext (as is
 the case, for instance, with most word processors);
 OR

 [*] You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
 no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
 etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
 or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2] Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
 "Small Print!" statement.

[3] Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
 net profits you derive calculated using the method you
 already use to calculate your applicable taxes. If you
 don't derive profits, no royalty is due. Royalties are
 payable to "Project Gutenberg Association/Carnegie-Mellon
 University" within the 60 days following each
 date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
 your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
you can think of. Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
Association / Carnegie-Mellon University".

*END*THE SMALL PRINT
! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*

This etext was prepared by Dennis McCarthy, Atlanta, GA.

THE DIVINE COMEDY

OF DANTE ALIGHIERI
(1265-1321)

TRANSLATED BY
HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW
(1807-1882)

CANTICLE II: PURGATORIO

CREDITS

The base text for this edition has been provided by Digital Dante, a
project sponsored by Columbia University's Institute for Learning
Technologies. Specific thanks goes to Jennifer Hogan (Project
Editor/Director), Tanya Larkin (Assistant to Editor), Robert W. Cole
(Proofreader/Assistant Editor), and Jennifer Cook (Proofreader).

The Digital Dante Project is a digital 'study space' for Dante studies and
scholarship. The project is multi-faceted and fluid by nature of the Web.
Digital Dante attempts to organize the information most significant for
students first engaging with Dante and scholars researching Dante. The
digital of Digital Dante incurs a new challenge to the student, the
scholar, and teacher, perusing the Web: to become proficient in the new
tools, e.g., Search, the Discussion Group, well enough to look beyond the
technology and delve into the content. For more information and access to
the project, please visit its web site at:
http://www.ilt.columbia.edu/projects/dante/

For this Project Gutenberg edition the e-text was rechecked. The editor
greatly thanks Dian McCarthy for her assistance in proofreading the
Paradiso. Also deserving praise are Herbert Fann for programming the text
editor "Desktop Tools/Edit" and the late August Dvorak for designing his
keyboard layout. Please refer to Project Gutenberg's e-text listings for
other editions or translations of 'The Divine Comedy.' For this three part
edition of 'The Divine Comedy' please refer to the end of the Paradiso for
supplemental materials.

Dennis McCarthy, July 1997
imprimatur@juno.com

CONTENTS

Purgatorio

 I. The Shores of Purgatory. The Four Stars. Cato of Utica.
 The Rush.
 II. The Celestial Pilot. Casella. The Departure.
 III. Discourse on the Limits of Reason. The Foot of the Mountain.
 Those who d
ied in Contumacy of Holy Church. Manfredi.
 IV. Farther Ascent. Nature of the Mountain. The Negligent,
 who postponed Repentance till the last Hour. Belacqua.
 V. Those who died by Violence, but repentant.
 Buonconte di Monfeltro. La Pia.
 VI. Dante's Inquiry on Prayers for the Dead. Sordello. Italy.
 VII. The Valley of Flowers. Negligent Princes.
 VIII. The Guardian Angels and the Serpent. Nino di Gallura.
 The Three Stars. Currado Malaspina.
 IX. Dante's Dream of the Eagle. The Gate of Purgatory and
 the Angel. Seven P's. The Keys.
 X. The Needle's Eye. The First Circle: The Proud.
 The Sculptures on the Wall.
 XI. The Humble Prayer. Omberto di Santafiore.
 Oderisi d' Agobbio. Provenzan Salvani.
 XII. The Sculptures on the Pavement. Ascent to the Second Circle.
 XIII. The Second Circle: The Envious. Sapia of Siena.
 XIV. Guido del Duca and Renier da Calboli. Cities of
 the Arno Valley. Denunciation of Stubbornness.
 XV. The Third Circle: The Irascible. Dante's Visions. The Smoke.
 XVI. Marco Lombardo. Lament over the State of the World.
 XVII. Dante's Dream of Anger. The Fourth Circle: The Slothful.
 Virgil's Discourse of Love.
 XVIII. Virgil further discourses of Love and Free Will.
 The Abbot of San Zeno.
 XIX. Dante's Dream of the Siren. The Fifth Circle:
 The Avaricious and Prodigal. Pope Adrian V.
 XX. Hugh Capet. Corruption of the French Crown.
 Prophecy of the Abduction of Pope Boniface VIII and
 the Sacrilege of Philip the Fair. The Earthquake.
 XXI. The Poet Statius. Praise of Virgil.
 XXII. Statius' Denunciation of Avarice. The Sixth Circle:
 The Gluttonous. The Mystic Tree.
 XXIII. Forese. Reproof of immodest Florentine Women.
 XXIV. Buonagiunta da Lucca. Pope Martin IV, and others.
 Inquiry into the State of Poetry.
 XXV. Discourse of Statius on Generation. The Seventh Circle:
 The Wanton.
 XXVI. Sodomites. Guido Guinicelli and Arnaldo Daniello.
 XXVII. The Wall of Fire and the Angel of God. Dante's Sleep
 upon the Stairway, and his Dream of Leah and Rachel.
 Arrival at the Terrestrial Paradise.
XXV
III. The River Lethe. Matilda. The Nature of
 the Terrestrial Paradise.
 XXIX. The Triumph of the Church.
 XXX. Virgil's Departure. Beatrice. Dante's Shame.
 XXXI. Reproaches of Beatrice and Confession of Dante.
 The Passage of Lethe. The Seven Virtues. The Griffon.
 XXXII. The Tree of Knowledge. Allegory of the Chariot.
XXXIII. Lament over the State of the Church. Final Reproaches
 of Beatrice. The River Eunoe.

The Divine Comedy
translated by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
(e-text courtesy ILT's Digital Dante Project)

PURGATORIO

Purgatorio: Canto I

To run o'er better waters hoists its sail
 The little vessel of my genius now,
 That leaves behind itself a sea so cruel;

And of that second kingdom will I sing
 Wherein the human spirit doth purge itself,
 And to ascend to heaven becometh worthy.

But let dead Poesy here rise again,
 O holy Muses, since that I am yours,
 And here Calliope somewhat ascend,

My song accompanying with that sound,
 Of which the miserable magpies felt
 The blow so great, that they despaired of pardon.

Sweet colour of the oriental sapphire,
 That was upgathered in the cloudless aspect
 Of the pure air, as far as the first circle,

Unto mine eyes did recommence delight
 Soon as I issued forth from the dead air,
 Which had with sadness filled mine eyes and breast.

The beauteous planet, that to love incites,
 Was making all the orient to laugh,
 Veiling the Fishes that were in her escort.

To the right hand I turned, and fixed my mind
 Upon the other pole, and saw four stars
 Ne'er seen before save by the primal people.

Rejoicing in their flamelets seemed the heaven.
 O thou septentrional and widowed site,
 Because thou art deprived of seeing these!

When from regarding them I had withdrawn,
 Turning a little to the other pole,
 There where the Wain had disappeared already,

I saw beside me an old man alone,
 Worthy of so much reverence in his look,
 That more owes not to father any son.

A long beard and with white hair intermingled
 He wore, in semblance like unto the tresses,
 Of which
 a double list fell on his breast.

The rays of the four consecrated stars
 Did so adorn his countenance with light,
 That him I saw as were the sun before him.

"Who are you? ye who, counter the blind river,
 Have fled away from the eternal prison?"
 Moving those venerable plumes, he said:

"Who guided you? or who has been your lamp
 In issuing forth out of the night profound,
 That ever black makes the infernal valley?

The laws of the abyss, are they thus broken?
 Or is there changed in heaven some council new,
 That being damned ye come unto my crags?"

Then did my Leader lay his grasp upon me,
 And with his words, and with his hands and signs,
 Reverent he made in me my knees and brow;

Then answered him: "I came not of myself;
 A Lady from Heaven descended, at whose prayers
 I aided this one with my company.

But since it is thy will more be unfolded
 Of our condition, how it truly is,
 Mine cannot be that this should be denied thee.

This one has never his last evening seen,
 But by his folly was so near to it
 That very little time was there to turn.

As I have said, I unto him was sent
 To rescue him, and other way was none
 Than this to which I have myself betaken.

I've shown him all the people of perdition,
 And now those spirits I intend to show
 Who purge themselves beneath thy guardianship.

How I have brought him would be long to tell thee.
 Virtue descendeth from on high that aids me
 To lead him to behold thee and to hear thee.

Now may it please thee to vouchsafe his coming;
 He seeketh Liberty, which is so dear,
 As knoweth he who life for her refuses.

Thou know'st it; since, for her, to thee not bitter
 Was death in Utica, where thou didst leave
 The vesture, that will shine so, the great day.

By us the eternal edicts are not broken;
 Since this one lives, and Minos binds not me;
 But of that circle I, where are the chaste

Eyes of thy Marcia, who in looks still prays thee,
 O holy breast, to hold her as thine own;
 For her love, then, incline thyself to us.

Permit us through thy sevenfold
 realm to go;
 I will take back this grace from thee to her,
 If to be mentioned there below thou deignest."

"Marcia so pleasing was unto mine eyes
 While I was on the other side," then said he,
 "That every grace she wished of me I granted;

Now that she dwells beyond the evil river,
 She can no longer move me, by that law
 Which, when I issued forth from there, was made.

But if a Lady of Heaven do move and rule thee,
 As thou dost say, no flattery is needful;
 Let it suffice thee that for her thou ask me.

Go, then, and see thou gird this one about
 With a smooth rush, and that thou wash his face,
 So that thou cleanse away all stain therefrom,

For 'twere not fitting that the eye o'ercast
 By any mist should go before the first
 Angel, who is of those of Paradise.

This little island round about its base
 Below there, yonder, where the billow beats it,
 Doth rushes bear upon its washy ooze;

No other plant that putteth forth the leaf,
 Or that doth indurate, can there have life,
 Because it yieldeth not unto the shocks.

Thereafter be not this way your return;
 The sun, which now is rising, will direct you
 To take the mount by easier ascent."

With this he vanished; and I raised me up
 Without a word, and wholly drew myself
 Unto my Guide, and turned mine eyes to him.

And he began: "Son, follow thou my steps;
 Let us turn back, for on this side declines
 The plain unto its lower boundaries."

The dawn was vanquishing the matin hour
 Which fled before it, so that from afar
 I recognised the trembling of the sea.

Along the solitary plain we went
 As one who unto the lost road returns,
 And till he finds it seems to go in vain.

As soon as we were come to where the dew
 Fights with the sun, and, being in a part
 Where shadow falls, little evaporates,

Both of his hands upon the grass outspread
 In gentle manner did my Master place;
 Whence I, who of his action was aware,

Extended unto him my tearful cheeks;
 There did he make in me uncovered wholly
 That hue which Hell had covered up in me.

Then came we do
wn upon the desert shore
 Which never yet saw navigate its waters
 Any that afterward had known return.

There he begirt me as the other pleased;
 O marvellous! for even as he culled
 The humble plant, such it sprang up again

Suddenly there where he uprooted it.

Purgatorio: Canto II

Already had the sun the horizon reached
 Whose circle of meridian covers o'er
 Jerusalem with its most lofty point,

And night that opposite to him revolves
 Was issuing forth from Ganges with the Scales
 That fall from out her hand when she exceedeth;

So that the white and the vermilion cheeks
 Of beautiful Aurora, where I was,
 By too great age were changing into orange.

We still were on the border of the sea,
 Like people who are thinking of their road,
 Who go in heart and with the body stay;

And lo! as when, upon the approach of morning,
 Through the gross vapours Mars grows fiery red
 Down in the West upon the ocean floor,

Appeared to me--may I again behold it!--
 A light along the sea so swiftly coming,
 Its motion by no flight of wing is equalled;

From which when I a little had withdrawn
 Mine eyes, that I might question my Conductor,
 Again I saw it brighter grown and larger.

Then on each side of it appeared to me
 I knew not what of white, and underneath it
 Little by little there came forth another.

My Master yet had uttered not a word
 While the first whiteness into wings unfolded;
 But when he clearly recognised the pilot,

He cried: "Make haste, make haste to bow the knee!
 Behold the Angel of God! fold thou thy hands!
 Henceforward shalt thou see such officers!

See how he scorneth human arguments,
 So that nor oar he wants, nor other sail
 Than his own wings, between so distant shores.

See how he holds them pointed up to heaven,
 Fanning the air with the eternal pinions,
 That do not moult themselves like mortal hair!"

Then as still nearer and more near us came
 The Bird Divine, more radiant he appeared,
 So that near by the eye could not endure him,

But down I cast it; and he came to shore
 With a small v
essel, very swift and light,
 So that the water swallowed naught thereof.

Upon the stern stood the Celestial Pilot;
 Beatitude seemed written in his face,
 And more than a hundred spirits sat within.

"In exitu Israel de Aegypto!"
 They chanted all together in one voice,
 With whatso in that psalm is after written.

Then made he sign of holy rood upon them,
 Whereat all cast themselves upon the shore,
 And he departed swiftly as he came.

The throng which still remained there unfamiliar
 Seemed with the place, all round about them gazing,
 As one who in new matters makes essay.

On every side was darting forth the day.
 The sun, who had with his resplendent shafts
 From the mid-heaven chased forth the Capricorn,

When the new people lifted up their faces
 Towards us, saying to us: "If ye know,
 Show us the way to go unto the mountain."

And answer made Virgilius: "Ye believe
 Perchance that we have knowledge of this place,
 But we are strangers even as yourselves.

Just now we came, a little while before you,
 Another way, which was so rough and steep,
 That mounting will henceforth seem sport to us."

The souls who had, from seeing me draw breath,
 Become aware that I was still alive,
 Pallid in their astonishment became;

And as to messenger who bears the olive
 The people throng to listen to the news,
 And no one shows himself afraid of crowding,

So at the sight of me stood motionless
 Those fortunate spirits, all of them, as if
 Oblivious to go and make them fair.

One from among them saw I coming forward,
 As to embrace me, with such great affection,
 That it incited me to do the like.

O empty shadows, save in aspect only!
 Three times behind it did I clasp my hands,
 As oft returned with them to my own breast!

I think with wonder I depicted me;
 Whereat the shadow smiled and backward drew;
 And I, pursuing it, pressed farther forward.

Gently it said that I should stay my steps;
 Then knew I who it was, and I entreated
 That it would stop awhile to speak with me.

It made reply to me: "Even as I loved t
hee
 In mortal body, so I love thee free;
 Therefore I stop; but wherefore goest thou?"

"My own Casella! to return once more
 There where I am, I make this journey," said I;
 "But how from thee has so much time be taken?"

And he to me: "No outrage has been done me,
 If he who takes both when and whom he pleases
 Has many times denied to me this passage,

For of a righteous will his own is made.
 He, sooth to say, for three months past has taken
 Whoever wished to enter with all peace;

Whence I, who now had turned unto that shore
 Where salt the waters of the Tiber grow,
 Benignantly by him have been received.

Unto that outlet now his wing is pointed,
 Because for evermore assemble there
 Those who tow'rds Acheron do not descend."

And I: "If some new law take not from thee
 Memory or practice of the song of love,
 Which used to quiet in me all my longings,

Thee may it please to comfort therewithal
 Somewhat this soul of mine, that with its body
 Hitherward coming is so much distressed."

"Love, that within my mind discourses with me,"
 Forthwith began he so melodiously,
 The melody within me still is sounding.

My Master, and myself, and all that people
 Which with him were, appeared as satisfied
 As if naught else might touch the mind of any.

We all of us were moveless and attentive
 Unto his notes; and lo! the grave old man,
 Exclaiming: "What is this, ye laggard spirits?

What negligence, what standing still is this?
 Run to the mountain to strip off the slough,
 That lets not God be manifest to you."

Even as when, collecting grain or tares,
 The doves, together at their pasture met,
 Quiet, nor showing their accustomed pride,

If aught appear of which they are afraid,
 Upon a sudden leave their food alone,
 Because they are assailed by greater care;

So that fresh company did I behold
 The song relinquish, and go tow'rds the hill,
 As one who goes, and knows not whitherward;

Nor was our own departure less in haste.

Purgatorio: Canto III

Inasmuch as the instantaneous flight
 Had scattered them asunde
r o'er the plain,
 Turned to the mountain whither reason spurs us,

I pressed me close unto my faithful comrade,
 And how without him had I kept my course?
 Who would have led me up along the mountain?

He seemed to me within himself remorseful;
 O noble conscience, and without a stain,
 How sharp a sting is trivial fault to thee!

After his feet had laid aside the haste
 Which mars the dignity of every act,
 My mind, that hitherto had been restrained,

Let loose its faculties as if delighted,
 And I my sight directed to the hill
 That highest tow'rds the heaven uplifts itself.

The sun, that in our rear was flaming red,
 Was broken in front of me into the figure
 Which had in me the stoppage of its rays;

Unto one side I turned me, with the fear
 Of being left alone, when I beheld
 Only in front of me the ground obscured.

"Why dost thou still mistrust?" my Comforter
 Began to say to me turned wholly round;
 "Dost thou not think me with thee, and that I guide thee?

'Tis evening there already where is buried
 The body within which I cast a shadow;
 'Tis from Brundusium ta'en, and Naples has it.

Now if in front of me no shadow fall,
 Marvel not at it more than at the heavens,
 Because one ray impedeth not another

To suffer torments, both of cold and heat,
 Bodies like this that Power provides, which wills
 That how it works be not unveiled to us.

Insane is he who hopeth that our reason
 Can traverse the illimitable way,
 Which the one Substance in three Persons follows!

Mortals, remain contented at the 'Quia;'
 For if ye had been able to see all,
 No need there were for Mary to give birth;

And ye have seen desiring without fruit,
 Those whose desire would have been quieted,
 Which evermore is given them for a grief.

I speak of Aristotle and of Plato,
 And many others;"--and here bowed his head,
 And more he said not, and remained disturbed.

We came meanwhile unto the mountain's foot;
 There so precipitate we found the rock,
 That nimble legs would there have been in vain.

'Twixt Lerici and Turbia, the mos
t desert,
 The most secluded pathway is a stair
 Easy and open, if compared with that.

"Who knoweth now upon which hand the hill
 <DW72>s down," my Master said, his footsteps staying,
 "So that who goeth without wings may mount?"

And while he held his eyes upon the ground
 Examining the nature of the path,
 And I was looking up around the rock,

On the left hand appeared to me a throng
 Of souls, that moved their feet in our direction,
 And did not seem to move, they came so slowly.

"Lift up thine eyes," I to the Master said;
 "Behold, on this side, who will give us counsel,
 If thou of thine own self can have it not."

Then he looked at me, and with frank expression
 Replied: "Let us go there, for they come slowly,
 And thou be steadfast in thy hope, sweet son."

Still was that people as far off from us,
 After a thousand steps of ours I say,
 As a good thrower with his hand would reach,

When they all crowded unto the hard masses
 Of the high bank, and motionless stood and close,
 As he stands still to look who goes in doubt.

"O happy dead! O spirits elect already!"
 Virgilius made beginning, "by that peace
 Which I believe is waiting for you all,

Tell us upon what side the mountain <DW72>s,
 So that the going up be possible,
 For to lose time irks him most who most knows."

As sheep come issuing forth from out the fold
 By ones and twos and threes, and the others stand
 Timidly, holding down their eyes and nostrils,

And what the foremost does the others do,
 Huddling themselves against her, if she stop,
 Simple and quiet and the wherefore know not;

So moving to approach us thereupon
 I saw the leader of that fortunate flock,
 Modest in face and dignified in gait.

As soon as those in the advance saw broken
 The light upon the ground at my right side,
 So that from me the shadow reached the rock,

They stopped, and backward drew themselves somewhat;
 And all the others, who came after them,
 Not knowing why nor wherefore, did the same.

"Without your asking, I confess to you
 This is a human body which y
ou see,
 Whereby the sunshine on the ground is cleft.

Marvel ye not thereat, but be persuaded
 That not without a power which comes from Heaven
 Doth he endeavour to surmount this wall."

The Master thus; and said those worthy people:
 "Return ye then, and enter in before us,"
 Making a signal with the back o' the hand

And one of them began: "Whoe'er thou art,
 Thus going turn thine eyes, consider well
 If e'er thou saw me in the other world."

I turned me tow'rds him, and looked at him closely;
 Blond was he, beautiful, and of noble aspect,
 But one of his eyebrows had a blow divided.

When with humility I had disclaimed
 E'er having seen him, "Now behold!" he said,
 And showed me high upon his breast a wound.

Then said he with a smile: "I am Manfredi,
 The grandson of the Empress Costanza;
 Therefore, when thou returnest, I beseech thee

Go to my daughter beautiful, the mother
 Of Sicily's honour and of Aragon's,
 And the truth tell her, if aught else be told.

After I had my body lacerated
 By these two mortal stabs, I gave myself
 Weeping to Him, who willingly doth pardon.

Horrible my iniquities had been;
 But Infinite Goodness hath such ample arms,
 That it receives whatever turns to it.

Had but Cosenza's pastor, who in chase
 Of me was sent by Clement at that time,
 In God read understandingly this page,

The bones of my dead body still would be
 At the bridge-head, near unto Benevento,
 Under the safeguard of the heavy cairn.

Now the rain bathes and moveth them the wind,
 Beyond the realm, almost beside the Verde,
 Where he transported them with tapers quenched.

By malison of theirs is not so lost
 Eternal Love, that it cannot return,
 So long as hope has anything of green.

True is it, who in contumacy dies
 Of Holy Church, though penitent at last,
 Must wait upon the outside this bank

Thirty times told the time that he has been
 In his presumption, unless such decree
 Shorter by means of righteous prayers become.

See now if thou hast power to make me happy,
 By making known unto my good Costanza

 How thou hast seen me, and this ban beside,

For those on earth can much advance us here."

Purgatorio: Canto IV

Whenever by delight or else by pain,
 That seizes any faculty of ours,
 Wholly to that the soul collects itself,

It seemeth that no other power it heeds;
 And this against that error is which thinks
 One soul above another kindles in us.

And hence, whenever aught is heard or seen
 Which keeps the soul intently bent upon it,
 Time passes on, and we perceive it not,

Because one faculty is that which listens,
 And other that which the soul keeps entire;
 This is as if in bonds, and that is free.

Of this I had experience positive
 In hearing and in gazing at that spirit;
 For fifty full degrees uprisen was

The sun, and I had not perceived it, when
 We came to where those souls with one accord
 Cried out unto us: "Here is what you ask."

A greater opening ofttimes hedges up
 With but a little forkful of his thorns
 The villager, what time the grape imbrowns,

Than was the passage-way through which ascended
 Only my Leader and myself behind him,
 After that company departed from us.

One climbs Sanleo and descends in Noli,
 And mounts the summit of Bismantova,
 With feet alone; but here one needs must fly;

With the swift pinions and the plumes I say
 Of great desire, conducted after him
 Who gave me hope, and made a light for me.

We mounted upward through the rifted rock,
 And on each side the border pressed upon us,
 And feet and hands the ground beneath required.

When we were come upon the upper rim
 Of the high bank, out on the open <DW72>,
 "My Master," said I, "what way shall we take?"

And he to me: "No step of thine descend;
 Still up the mount behind me win thy way,
 Till some sage escort shall appear to us."

The summit was so high it vanquished sight,
 And the hillside precipitous far more
 Than line from middle quadrant to the centre.

Spent with fatigue was I, when I began:
 "O my sweet Father! turn thee and behold
 How I remain alone, unless thou stay!"

"O son," he said, "up yonder d
rag thyself,"
 Pointing me to a terrace somewhat higher,
 Which on that side encircles all the hill.

These words of his so spurred me on, that I
 Strained every nerve, behind him scrambling up,
 Until the circle was beneath my feet.

Thereon ourselves we seated both of us
 Turned to the East, from which we had ascended,
 For all men are delighted to look back.

To the low shores mine eyes I first directed,
 Then to the sun uplifted them, and wondered
 That on the left hand we were smitten by it.

The Poet well perceived that I was wholly
 Bewildered at the chariot of the light,
 Where 'twixt us and the Aquilon it entered.

Whereon he said to me: "If Castor and Pollux
 Were in the company of yonder mirror,
 That up and down conducteth with its light,

Thou wouldst behold the zodiac's jagged wheel
 Revolving still more near unto the Bears,
 Unless it swerved aside from its old track.

How that may be wouldst thou have power to think,
 Collected in thyself, imagine Zion
 Together with this mount on earth to stand,

So that they both one sole horizon have,
 And hemispheres diverse; whereby the road
 Which Phaeton, alas! knew not to drive,

Thou'lt see how of necessity must pass
 This on one side, when that upon the other,
 If thine intelligence right clearly heed."

"Truly, my Master," said I, "never yet
 Saw I so clearly as I now discern,
 There where my wit appeared incompetent,

That the mid-circle of supernal motion,
 Which in some art is the Equator called,
 And aye remains between the Sun and Winter,

For reason which thou sayest, departeth hence
 Tow'rds the Septentrion, what time the Hebrews
 Beheld it tow'rds the region of the heat.

But, if it pleaseth thee, I fain would learn
 How far we have to go; for the hill rises
 Higher than eyes of mine have power to rise."

And he to me: "This mount is such, that ever
 At the beginning down below 'tis tiresome,
 And aye the more one climbs, the less it hurts.

Therefore, when it shall seem so pleasant to thee,
 That going up shall be to thee as easy
 As going down
 the current in a boat,

Then at this pathway's ending thou wilt be;
 There to repose thy panting breath expect;
 No more I answer; and this I know for true."

And as he finished uttering these words,
 A voice close by us sounded: "Peradventure
 Thou wilt have need of sitting down ere that."

At sound thereof each one of us turned round,
 And saw upon the left hand a great rock,
 Which neither I nor he before had noticed.

Thither we drew; and there were persons there
 Who in the shadow stood behind the rock,
 As one through indolence is wont to stand.

And one of them, who seemed to me fatigued,
 Was sitting down, and both his knees embraced,
 Holding his face low down between them bowed.

"O my sweet Lord," I said, "do turn thine eye
 On him who shows himself more negligent
 Then even Sloth herself his sister were."

Then he turned round to us, and he gave heed,
 Just lifting up his eyes above his thigh,
 And said: "Now go thou up, for thou art valiant."

Then knew I who he was; and the distress,
 That still a little did my breathing quicken,
 My going to him hindered not; and after

I came to him he hardly raised his head,
 Saying: "Hast thou seen clearly how the sun
 O'er thy left shoulder drives his chariot?"

His sluggish attitude and his curt words
 A little unto laughter moved my lips;
 Then I began: "Belacqua, I grieve not

For thee henceforth; but tell me, wherefore seated
 In this place art thou? Waitest thou an escort?
 Or has thy usual habit seized upon thee?"

And he: "O brother, what's the use of climbing?
 Since to my torment would not let me go
 The Angel of God, who sitteth at the gate.

First heaven must needs so long revolve me round
 Outside thereof, as in my life it did,
 Since the good sighs I to the end postponed,

Unless, e'er that, some prayer may bring me aid
 Which rises from a heart that lives in grace;
 What profit others that in heaven are heard not?"

Meanwhile the Poet was before me mounting,
 And saying: "Come now; see the sun has touched
 Meridian, and from the shore the night


Covers already with her foot Morocco."

Purgatorio: Canto V

I had already from those shades departed,
 And followed in the footsteps of my Guide,
 When from behind, pointing his finger at me,

One shouted: "See, it seems as if shone not
 The sunshine on the left of him below,
 And like one living seems he to conduct him."

Mine eyes I turned at utterance of these words,
 And saw them watching with astonishment
 But me, but me, and the light which was broken!

"Why doth thy mind so occupy itself,"
 The Master said, "that thou thy pace dost slacken?
 What matters it to thee what here is whispered?

Come after me, and let the people talk;
 Stand like a steadfast tower, that never wags
 Its top for all the blowing of the winds;

For evermore the man in whom is springing
 Thought upon thought, removes from him the mark,
 Because the force of one the other weakens."

What could I say in answer but "I come"?
 I said it somewhat with that colour tinged
 Which makes a man of pardon sometimes worthy.

Meanwhile along the mountain-side across
 Came people in advance of us a little,
 Singing the Miserere verse by verse.

When they became aware I gave no place
 For passage of the sunshine through my body,
 They changed their song into a long, hoarse "Oh!"

And two of them, in form of messengers,
 Ran forth to meet us, and demanded of us,
 "Of your condition make us cognisant."

And said my Master: "Ye can go your way
 And carry back again to those who sent you,
 That this one's body is of very flesh.

If they stood still because they saw his shadow,
 As I suppose, enough is answered them;
 Him let them honour, it may profit them."

Vapours enkindled saw I ne'er so swiftly
 At early nightfall cleave the air serene,
 Nor, at the set of sun, the clouds of August,

But upward they returned in briefer time,
 And, on arriving, with the others wheeled
 Tow'rds us, like troops that run without a rein.

"This folk that presses unto us is great,
 And cometh to implore thee," said the Poet;
 "So still go onward, and in going listen."


"O soul that goest to beatitude
 With the same members wherewith thou wast born,"
 Shouting they came, "a little stay thy steps,

Look, if thou e'er hast any of us seen,
 So that o'er yonder thou bear news of him;
 Ah, why dost thou go on? Ah, why not stay?

Long since we all were slain by violence,
 And sinners even to the latest hour;
 Then did a light from heaven admonish us,

So that, both penitent and pardoning, forth
 From life we issued reconciled to God,
 Who with desire to see Him stirs our hearts."

And I: "Although I gaze into your faces,
 No one I recognize; but if may please you
 Aught I have power to do, ye well-born spirits,

Speak ye, and I will do it, by that peace
 Which, following the feet of such a Guide,
 From world to world makes itself sought by me."

And one began: "Each one has confidence
 In thy good offices without an oath,
 Unless the I cannot cut off the I will;

Whence I, who speak alone before the others,
 Pray thee, if ever thou dost see the land
 That 'twixt Romagna lies and that of Charles,

Thou be so courteous to me of thy prayers
 In Fano, that they pray for me devoutly,
 That I may purge away my grave offences.

From thence was I; but the deep wounds, through which
 Issued the blood wherein I had my seat,
 Were dealt me in bosom of the Antenori,

There where I thought to be the most secure;
 'Twas he of Este had it done, who held me
 In hatred far beyond what justice willed.

But if towards the Mira I had fled,
 When I was overtaken at Oriaco,
 I still should be o'er yonder where men breathe.

I ran to the lagoon, and reeds and mire
 Did so entangle me I fell, and saw there
 A lake made from my veins upon the ground."

Then said another: "Ah, be that desire
 Fulfilled that draws thee to the lofty mountain,
 As thou with pious pity aidest mine.

I was of Montefeltro, and am Buonconte;
 Giovanna, nor none other cares for me;
 Hence among these I go with downcast front."

And I to him: "What violence or what chance
 Led thee astray so far from Campaldino,
 That never has thy sep
ulture been known?"

"Oh," he replied, "at Casentino's foot
 A river crosses named Archiano, born
 Above the Hermitage in Apennine.

There where the name thereof becometh void
 Did I arrive, pierced through and through the throat,
 Fleeing on foot, and bloodying the plain;

There my sight lost I, and my utterance
 Ceased in the name of Mary, and thereat
 I fell, and tenantless my flesh remained.

Truth will I speak, repeat it to the living;
 God's Angel took me up, and he of hell
 Shouted: 'O thou from heaven, why dost thou rob me?

Thou bearest away the eternal part of him,
 For one poor little tear, that takes him from me;
 But with the rest I'll deal in other fashion!'

Well knowest thou how in the air is gathered
 That humid vapour which to water turns,
 Soon as it rises where the cold doth grasp it.

He joined that evil will, which aye seeks evil,
 To intellect, and moved the mist and wind
 By means of power, which his own nature gave;

Thereafter, when the day was spent, the valley
 From Pratomagno to the great yoke covered
 With fog, and made the heaven above intent,

So that the pregnant air to water changed;
 Down fell the rain, and to the gullies came
 Whate'er of it earth tolerated not;

And as it mingled with the mighty torrents,
 Towards the royal river with such speed
 It headlong rushed, that nothing held it back.

My frozen body near unto its outlet
 The robust Archian found, and into Arno
 Thrust it, and loosened from my breast the cross

I made of me, when agony o'ercame me;
 It rolled me on the banks and on the bottom,
 Then with its booty covered and begirt me."

"Ah, when thou hast returned unto the world,
 And rested thee from thy long journeying,"
 After the second followed the third spirit,

"Do thou remember me who am the Pia;
 Siena made me, unmade me Maremma;
 He knoweth it, who had encircled first,

Espousing me, my finger with his gem."

Purgatorio: Canto VI

Whene'er is broken up the game of Zara,
 He who has lost remains behind despondent,
 The throws repeating, and in sadness learn
s;

The people with the other all depart;
 One goes in front, and one behind doth pluck him,
 And at his side one brings himself to mind;

He pauses not, and this and that one hears;
 They crowd no more to whom his hand he stretches,
 And from the throng he thus defends himself.

Even such was I in that dense multitude,
 Turning to them this way and that my face,
 And, promising, I freed myself therefrom.

There was the Aretine, who from the arms
 Untamed of Ghin di Tacco had his death,
 And he who fleeing from pursuit was drowned.

There was imploring with his hands outstretched
 Frederick Novello, and that one of Pisa
 Who made the good Marzucco seem so strong.

I saw Count Orso; and the soul divided
 By hatred and by envy from its body,
 As it declared, and not for crime committed,

Pierre de la Brosse I say; and here provide
 While still on earth the Lady of Brabant,
 So that for this she be of no worse flock!

As soon as I was free from all those shades
 Who only prayed that some one else may pray,
 So as to hasten their becoming holy,

Began I: "It appears that thou deniest,
 O light of mine, expressly in some text,
 That orison can bend decree of Heaven;

And ne'ertheless these people pray for this.
 Might then their expectation bootless be?
 Or is to me thy saying not quite clear?"

And he to me: "My writing is explicit,
 And not fallacious is the hope of these,
 If with sane intellect 'tis well regarded;

For top of judgment doth not vail itself,
 Because the fire of love fulfils at once
 What he must satisfy who here installs him.

And there, where I affirmed that proposition,
 Defect was not amended by a prayer,
 Because the prayer from God was separate.

Verily, in so deep a questioning
 Do not decide, unless she tell it thee,
 Who light 'twixt truth and intellect shall be.

I know not if thou understand; I speak
 Of Beatrice; her shalt thou see above,
 Smiling and happy, on this mountain's top."

And I: "Good Leader, let us make more haste,
 For I no longer tire me as before;
 And see, e'en now the h
ill a shadow casts."

"We will go forward with this day" he answered,
 "As far as now is possible for us;
 But otherwise the fact is than thou thinkest.

Ere thou art up there, thou shalt see return
 Him, who now hides himself behind the hill,
 So that thou dost not interrupt his rays.

But yonder there behold! a soul that stationed
 All, all alone is looking hitherward;
 It will point out to us the quickest way."

We came up unto it; O Lombard soul,
 How lofty and disdainful thou didst bear thee,
 And grand and slow in moving of thine eyes!

Nothing whatever did it say to us,
 But let us go our way, eying us only
 After the manner of a couchant lion;

Still near to it Virgilius drew, entreating
 That it would point us out the best ascent;
 And it replied not unto his demand,

But of our native land and of our life
 It questioned us; and the sweet Guide began:
 "Mantua,"--and the shade, all in itself recluse,

Rose tow'rds him from the place where first it was,
 Saying: "O Mantuan, I am Sordello
 Of thine own land!" and one embraced the other.

Ah! servile Italy, grief's hostelry!
 A ship without a pilot in great tempest!
 No Lady thou of Provinces, but brothel!

That noble soul was so impatient, only
 At the sweet sound of his own native land,
 To make its citizen glad welcome there;

And now within thee are not without war
 Thy living ones, and one doth gnaw the other
 Of those whom one wall and one fosse shut in!

Search, wretched one, all round about the shores
 Thy seaboard, and then look within thy bosom,
 If any part of thee enjoyeth peace!

What boots it, that for thee Justinian
 The bridle mend, if empty be the saddle?
 Withouten this the shame would be the less.

Ah! people, thou that oughtest to be devout,
 And to let Caesar sit upon the saddle,
 If well thou hearest what God teacheth thee,

Behold how fell this wild beast has become,
 Being no longer by the spur corrected,
 Since thou hast laid thy hand upon the bridle.

O German Albert! who abandonest
 Her that has grown recalcitrant and savage,
 And
 oughtest to bestride her saddle-bow,

May a just judgment from the stars down fall
 Upon thy blood, and be it new and open,
 That thy successor may have fear thereof;

Because thy father and thyself have suffered,
 By greed of those transalpine lands distrained,
 The garden of the empire to be waste.

Come and behold Montecchi and Cappelletti,
 Monaldi and Fillippeschi, careless man!
 Those sad already, and these doubt-depressed!

Come, cruel one! come and behold the oppression
 Of thy nobility, and cure their wounds,
 And thou shalt see how safe is Santafiore!

Come and behold thy Rome, that is lamenting,
 Widowed, alone, and day and night exclaims,
 "My Caesar, why hast thou forsaken me?"

Come and behold how loving are the people;
 And if for us no pity moveth thee,
 Come and be made ashamed of thy renown!

And if it lawful be, O Jove Supreme!
 Who upon earth for us wast crucified,
 Are thy just eyes averted otherwhere?

Or preparation is 't, that, in the abyss
 Of thine own counsel, for some good thou makest
 From our perception utterly cut off?

For all the towns of Italy are full
 Of tyrants, and becometh a Marcellus
 Each peasant churl who plays the partisan!

My Florence! well mayst thou contented be
 With this digression, which concerns thee not,
 Thanks to thy people who such forethought take!

Many at heart have justice, but shoot slowly,
 That unadvised they come not to the bow,
 But on their very lips thy people have it!

Many refuse to bear the common burden;
 But thy solicitous people answereth
 Without being asked, and crieth: "I submit."

Now be thou joyful, for thou hast good reason;
 Thou affluent, thou in peace, thou full of wisdom!
 If I speak true, the event conceals it not.

Athens and Lacedaemon, they who made
 The ancient laws, and were so civilized,
 Made towards living well a little sign

Compared with thee, who makest such fine-spun
 Provisions, that to middle of November
 Reaches not what thou in October spinnest.

How oft, within the time of thy remembrance,
 Laws, money, offices, a
nd usages
 Hast thou remodelled, and renewed thy members?

And if thou mind thee well, and see the light,
 Thou shalt behold thyself like a sick woman,
 Who cannot find repose upon her down,

But by her tossing wardeth off her pain.

Purgatorio: Canto VII

After the gracious and glad salutations
 Had three and four times been reiterated,
 Sordello backward drew and said, "Who are you?"

"Or ever to this mountain were directed
 The souls deserving to ascend to God,
 My bones were buried by Octavian.

I am Virgilius; and for no crime else
 Did I lose heaven, than for not having faith;"
 In this wise then my Leader made reply.

As one who suddenly before him sees
 Something whereat he marvels, who believes
 And yet does not, saying, "It is! it is not!"

So he appeared; and then bowed down his brow,
 And with humility returned towards him,
 And, where inferiors embrace, embraced him.

"O glory of the Latians, thou," he said,
 "Through whom our language showed what it could do
 O pride eternal of the place I came from,

What merit or what grace to me reveals thee?
 If I to hear thy words be worthy, tell me
 If thou dost come from Hell, and from what cloister."

"Through all the circles of the doleful realm,"
 Responded he, "have I come hitherward;
 Heaven's power impelled me, and with that I come.

I by not doing, not by doing, lost
 The sight of that high sun which thou desirest,
 And which too late by me was recognized.

A place there is below not sad with torments,
 But darkness only, where the lamentations
 Have not the sound of wailing, but are sighs.

There dwell I with the little innocents
 Snatched by the teeth of Death, or ever they
 Were from our human sinfulness exempt.

There dwell I among those who the three saintly
 Virtues did not put on, and without vice
 The others knew and followed all of them.

But if thou know and can, some indication
 Give us by which we may the sooner come
 Where Purgatory has its right beginning."

He answered: "No fixed place has been assigned us;
 'Tis lawful for me to go up a
nd round;
 So far as I can go, as guide I join thee.

But see already how the day declines,
 And to go up by night we are not able;
 Therefore 'tis well to think of some fair sojourn.

Souls are there on the right hand here withdrawn;
 If thou permit me I will lead thee to them,
 And thou shalt know them not without delight."

"How is this?" was the answer; "should one wish
 To mount by night would he prevented be
 By others? or mayhap would not have power?"

And on the ground the good Sordello drew
 His finger, saying, "See, this line alone
 Thou couldst not pass after the sun is gone;

Not that aught else would hindrance give, however,
 To going up, save the nocturnal darkness;
 This with the want of power the will perplexes.

We might indeed therewith return below,
 And, wandering, walk the hill-side round about,
 While the horizon holds the day imprisoned."

Thereon my Lord, as if in wonder, said:
 "Do thou conduct us thither, where thou sayest
 That we can take delight in tarrying."

Little had we withdrawn us from that place,
 When I perceived the mount was hollowed out
 In fashion as the valleys here are hollowed.

"Thitherward," said that shade, "will we repair,
 Where of itself the hill-side makes a lap,
 And there for the new day will we await."

'Twixt hill and plain there was a winding path
 Which led us to the margin of that dell,
 Where dies the border more than half away.

Gold and fine silver, and scarlet and pearl-white,
 The Indian wood resplendent and serene,
 Fresh emerald the moment it is broken,

By herbage and by flowers within that hollow
 Planted, each one in colour would be vanquished,
 As by its greater vanquished is the less.

Nor in that place had nature painted only,
 But of the sweetness of a thousand odours
 Made there a mingled fragrance and unknown.

"Salve Regina," on the green and flowers
 There seated, singing, spirits I beheld,
 Which were not visible outside the valley.

"Before the scanty sun now seeks his nest,"
 Began the Mantuan who had led us thither,
 "Among them do no
t wish me to conduct you.

Better from off this ledge the acts and faces
 Of all of them will you discriminate,
 Than in the plain below received among them.

He who sits highest, and the semblance bears
 Of having what he should have done neglected,
 And to the others' song moves not his lips,

Rudolph the Emperor was, who had the power
 To heal the wounds that Italy have slain,
 So that through others slowly she revives.

The other, who in look doth comfort him,
 Governed the region where the water springs,
 The Moldau bears the Elbe, and Elbe the sea.

His name was Ottocar; and in swaddling-clothes
 Far better he than bearded Winceslaus
 His son, who feeds in luxury and ease.

And the small-nosed, who close in council seems
 With him that has an aspect so benign,
 Died fleeing and disflowering the lily;

Look there, how he is beating at his breast!
 Behold the other one, who for his cheek
 Sighing has made of his own palm a bed;

Father and father-in-law of France's Pest
 Are they, and know his vicious life and lewd,
 And hence proceeds the grief that so doth pierce them.

He who appears so stalwart, and chimes in,
 Singing, with that one of the manly nose,
 The cord of every valour wore begirt;

And if as King had after him remained
 The stripling who in rear of him is sitting,
 Well had the valour passed from vase to vase,

Which cannot of the other heirs be said.
 Frederick and Jacomo possess the realms,
 But none the better heritage possesses.

Not oftentimes upriseth through the branches
 The probity of man; and this He wills
 Who gives it, so that we may ask of Him.

Eke to the large-nosed reach my words, no less
 Than to the other, Pier, who with him sings;
 Whence Provence and Apulia grieve already

The plant is as inferior to its seed,
 As more than Beatrice and Margaret
 Costanza boasteth of her husband still.

Behold the monarch of the simple life,
 Harry of England, sitting there alone;
 He in his branches has a better issue.

He who the lowest on the ground among them
 Sits looking upward, is the 
Marquis William,
 For whose sake Alessandria and her war

Make Monferrat and Canavese weep."

Purgatorio: Canto VIII

'Twas now the hour that turneth back desire
 In those who sail the sea, and melts the heart,
 The day they've said to their sweet friends farewell,

And the new pilgrim penetrates with love,
 If he doth hear from far away a bell
 That seemeth to deplore the dying day,

When I began to make of no avail
 My hearing, and to watch one of the souls
 Uprisen, that begged attention with its hand.

It joined and lifted upward both its palms,
 Fixing its eyes upon the orient,
 As if it said to God, "Naught else I care for."

"Te lucis ante" so devoutly issued
 Forth from its mouth, and with such dulcet notes,
 It made me issue forth from my own mind.

And then the others, sweetly and devoutly,
 Accompanied it through all the hymn entire,
 Having their eyes on the supernal wheels.

Here, Reader, fix thine eyes well on the truth,
 For now indeed so subtile is the veil,
 Surely to penetrate within is easy.

I saw that army of the gentle-born
 Thereafterward in silence upward gaze,
 As if in expectation, pale and humble;

And from on high come forth and down descend,
 I saw two Angels with two flaming swords,
 Truncated and deprived of their points.

Green as the little leaflets just now born
 Their garments were, which, by their verdant pinions
 Beaten and blown abroad, they trailed behind.

One just above us came to take his station,
 And one descended to the opposite bank,
 So that the people were contained between them.

Clearly in them discerned I the blond head;
 But in their faces was the eye bewildered,
 As faculty confounded by excess.

"From Mary's bosom both of them have come,"
 Sordello said, "as guardians of the valley
 Against the serpent, that will come anon."

Whereupon I, who knew not by what road,
 Turned round about, and closely drew myself,
 Utterly frozen, to the faithful shoulders.

And once again Sordello: "Now descend we
 'Mid the grand shades, and we will speak to them;
 Right pleasant
 will it be for them to see you."

Only three steps I think that I descended,
 And was below, and saw one who was looking
 Only at me, as if he fain would know me.

Already now the air was growing dark,
 But not so that between his eyes and mine
 It did not show what it before locked up.

Tow'rds me he moved, and I tow'rds him did move;
 Noble Judge Nino! how it me delighted,
 When I beheld thee not among the damned!

No greeting fair was left unsaid between us;
 Then asked he: "How long is it since thou camest
 O'er the far waters to the mountain's foot?"

"Oh!" said I to him, "through the dismal places
 I came this morn; and am in the first life,
 Albeit the other, going thus, I gain."

And on the instant my reply was heard,
 He and Sordello both shrank back from me,
 Like people who are suddenly bewildered.

One to Virgilius, and the other turned
 To one who sat there, crying, "Up, Currado!
 Come and behold what God in grace has willed!"

Then, turned to me: "By that especial grace
 Thou owest unto Him, who so conceals
 His own first wherefore, that it has no ford,

When thou shalt be beyond the waters wide,
 Tell my Giovanna that she pray for me,
 Where answer to the innocent is made.

I do not think her mother loves me more,
 Since she has laid aside her wimple white,
 Which she, unhappy, needs must wish again.

Through her full easily is comprehended
 How long in woman lasts the fire of love,
 If eye or touch do not relight it often.

So fair a hatchment will not make for her
 The Viper marshalling the Milanese
 A-field, as would have made Gallura's Cock."

In this wise spake he, with the stamp impressed
 Upon his aspect of that righteous zeal
 Which measurably burneth in the heart.

My greedy eyes still wandered up to heaven,
 Still to that point where slowest are the stars,
 Even as a wheel the nearest to its axle.

And my Conductor: "Son, what dost thou gaze at
 Up there?" And I to him: "At those three torches
 With which this hither pole is all on fire."

And he to me: "The four resplendent stars
 Thou 
sawest this morning are down yonder low,
 And these have mounted up to where those were."

As he was speaking, to himself Sordello
 Drew him, and said, "Lo there our Adversary!"
 And pointed with his finger to look thither.

Upon the side on which the little valley
 No barrier hath, a serpent was; perchance
 The same which gave to Eve the bitter food.

'Twixt grass and flowers came on the evil streak,
 Turning at times its head about, and licking
 Its back like to a beast that smoothes itself.

I did not see, and therefore cannot say
 How the celestial falcons 'gan to move,
 But well I saw that they were both in motion.

Hearing the air cleft by their verdant wings,
 The serpent fled, and round the Angels wheeled,
 Up to their stations flying back alike.

The shade that to the Judge had near approached
 When he had called, throughout that whole assault
 Had not a moment loosed its gaze on me.

"So may the light that leadeth thee on high
 Find in thine own free-will as much of wax
 As needful is up to the highest azure,"

Began it, "if some true intelligence
 Of Valdimagra or its neighbourhood
 Thou knowest, tell it me, who once was great there.

Currado Malaspina was I called;
 I'm not the elder, but from him descended;
 To mine I bore the love which here refineth."

"O," said I unto him, "through your domains
 I never passed, but where is there a dwelling
 Throughout all Europe, where they are not known?

That fame, which doeth honour to your house,
 Proclaims its Signors and proclaims its land,
 So that he knows of them who ne'er was there.

And, as I hope for heaven, I swear to you
 Your honoured family in naught abates
 The glory of the purse and of the sword.

It is so privileged by use and nature,
 That though a guilty head misguide the world,
 Sole it goes right, and scorns the evil way."

And he: "Now go; for the sun shall not lie
 Seven times upon the pillow which the Ram
 With all his four feet covers and bestrides,

Before that such a courteous opinion
 Shall in the middle of thy head be nailed
 With g
reater nails than of another's speech,

Unless the course of justice standeth still."

Purgatorio: Canto IX

The concubine of old Tithonus now
 Gleamed white upon the eastern balcony,
 Forth from the arms of her sweet paramour;

With gems her forehead all relucent was,
 Set in the shape of that cold animal
 Which with its tail doth smite amain the nations,

And of the steps, with which she mounts, the Night
 Had taken two in that place where we were,
 And now the third was bending down its wings;

When I, who something had of Adam in me,
 Vanquished by sleep, upon the grass reclined,
 There were all five of us already sat.

Just at the hour when her sad lay begins
 The little swallow, near unto the morning,
 Perchance in memory of her former woes,

And when the mind of man, a wanderer
 More from the flesh, and less by thought imprisoned,
 Almost prophetic in its visions is,

In dreams it seemed to me I saw suspended
 An eagle in the sky, with plumes of gold,
 With wings wide open, and intent to stoop,

And this, it seemed to me, was where had been
 By Ganymede his kith and kin abandoned,
 When to the high consistory he was rapt.

I thought within myself, perchance he strikes
 From habit only here, and from elsewhere
 Disdains to bear up any in his feet.

Then wheeling somewhat more, it seemed to me,
 Terrible as the lightning he descended,
 And snatched me upward even to the fire.

Therein it seemed that he and I were burning,
 And the imagined fire did scorch me so,
 That of necessity my sleep was broken.

Not otherwise Achilles started up,
 Around him turning his awakened eyes,
 And knowing not the place in which he was,

What time from Chiron stealthily his mother
 Carried him sleeping in her arms to Scyros,
 Wherefrom the Greeks withdrew him afterwards,

Than I upstarted, when from off my face
 Sleep fled away; and pallid I became,
 As doth the man who freezes with affright.

Only my Comforter was at my side,
 And now the sun was more than two hours high,
 And turned towards the sea-shore was my face.

"Be no
t intimidated," said my Lord,
 "Be reassured, for all is well with us;
 Do not restrain, but put forth all thy strength.

Thou hast at length arrived at Purgatory;
 See there the cliff that closes it around;
 See there the entrance, where it seems disjoined.

Whilom at dawn, which doth precede the day,
 When inwardly thy spirit was asleep
 Upon the flowers that deck the land below,

There came a Lady and said: 'I am Lucia;
 Let me take this one up, who is asleep;
 So will I make his journey easier for him.'

Sordello and the other noble shapes
 Remained; she took thee, and, as day grew bright,
 Upward she came, and I upon her footsteps.

She laid thee here; and first her beauteous eyes
 That open entrance pointed out to me;
 Then she and sleep together went away."

In guise of one whose doubts are reassured,
 And who to confidence his fear doth change,
 After the truth has been discovered to him,

So did I change; and when without disquiet
 My Leader saw me, up along the cliff
 He moved, and I behind him, tow'rd the height.

Reader, thou seest well how I exalt
 My theme, and therefore if with greater art
 I fortify it, marvel not thereat.

Nearer approached we, and were in such place,
 That there, where first appeared to me a rift
 Like to a crevice that disparts a wall,

I saw a portal, and three stairs beneath,
 Diverse in colour, to go up to it,
 And a gate-keeper, who yet spake no word.

And as I opened more and more mine eyes,
 I saw him seated on the highest stair,
 Such in the face that I endured it not.

And in his hand he had a naked sword,
 Which so reflected back the sunbeams tow'rds us,
 That oft in vain I lifted up mine eyes.

"Tell it from where you are, what is't you wish?"
 Began he to exclaim; "where is the escort?
 Take heed your coming hither harm you not!"

"A Lady of Heaven, with these things conversant,"
 My Master answered him, "but even now
 Said to us, 'Thither go; there is the portal.'"

"And may she speed your footsteps in all good,"
 Again began the courteous janitor;
 "Come forward th
en unto these stairs of ours."

Thither did we approach; and the first stair
 Was marble white, so polished and so smooth,
 I mirrored myself therein as I appear.

The second, tinct of deeper hue than perse,
 Was of a calcined and uneven stone,
 Cracked all asunder lengthwise and across.

The third, that uppermost rests massively,
 Porphyry seemed to me, as flaming red
 As blood that from a vein is spirting forth.

Both of his feet was holding upon this
 The Angel of God, upon the threshold seated,
 Which seemed to me a stone of diamond.

Along the three stairs upward with good will
 Did my Conductor draw me, saying: "Ask
 Humbly that he the fastening may undo."

Devoutly at the holy feet I cast me,
 For mercy's sake besought that he would open,
 But first upon my breast three times I smote.

Seven P's upon my forehead he described
 With the sword's point, and, "Take heed that thou wash
 These wounds, when thou shalt be within," he said.

Ashes, or earth that dry is excavated,
 Of the same colour were with his attire,
 And from beneath it he drew forth two keys.

One was of gold, and the other was of silver;
 First with the white, and after with the yellow,
 Plied he the door, so that I was content.

"Whenever faileth either of these keys
 So that it turn not rightly in the lock,"
 He said to us, "this entrance doth not open.

More precious one is, but the other needs
 More art and intellect ere it unlock,
 For it is that which doth the knot unloose.

From Peter I have them; and he bade me err
 Rather in opening than in keeping shut,
 If people but fall down before my feet."

Then pushed the portals of the sacred door,
 Exclaiming: "Enter; but I give you warning
 That forth returns whoever looks behind."

And when upon their hinges were turned round
 The swivels of that consecrated gate,
 Which are of metal, massive and sonorous,

Roared not so loud, nor so discordant seemed
 Tarpeia, when was ta'en from it the good
 Metellus, wherefore meagre it remained.

At the first thunder-peal I turned attentive,
 And "Te D
eum laudamus" seemed to hear
 In voices mingled with sweet melody.

Exactly such an image rendered me
 That which I heard, as we are wont to catch,
 When people singing with the organ stand;

For now we hear, and now hear not, the words.

Purgatorio: Canto X

When we had crossed the threshold of the door
 Which the perverted love of souls disuses,
 Because it makes the crooked way seem straight,

Re-echoing I heard it closed again;
 And if I had turned back mine eyes upon it,
 What for my failing had been fit excuse?

We mounted upward through a rifted rock,
 Which undulated to this side and that,
 Even as a wave receding and advancing.

"Here it behoves us use a little art,"
 Began my Leader, "to adapt ourselves
 Now here, now there, to the receding side."

And this our footsteps so infrequent made,
 That sooner had the moon's decreasing disk
 Regained its bed to sink again to rest,

Than we were forth from out that needle's eye;
 But when we free and in the open were,
 There where the mountain backward piles itself,

I wearied out, and both of us uncertain
 About our way, we stopped upon a plain
 More desolate than roads across the deserts.

From where its margin borders on the void,
 To foot of the high bank that ever rises,
 A human body three times told would measure;

And far as eye of mine could wing its flight,
 Now on the left, and on the right flank now,
 The same this cornice did appear to me.

Thereon our feet had not been moved as yet,
 When I perceived the embankment round about,
 Which all right of ascent had interdicted,

To be of marble white, and so adorned
 With sculptures, that not only Polycletus,
 But Nature's self, had there been put to shame.

The Angel, who came down to earth with tidings
 Of peace, that had been wept for many a year,
 And opened Heaven from its long interdict,

In front of us appeared so truthfully
 There sculptured in a gracious attitude,
 He did not seem an image that is silent.

One would have sworn that he was saying, "Ave;"
 For she was there in effigy portrayed
 Wh
o turned the key to ope the exalted love,

And in her mien this language had impressed,
 "Ecce ancilla Dei," as distinctly
 As any figure stamps itself in wax.

"Keep not thy mind upon one place alone,"
 The gentle Master said, who had me standing
 Upon that side where people have their hearts;

Whereat I moved mine eyes, and I beheld
 In rear of Mary, and upon that side
 Where he was standing who conducted me,

Another story on the rock imposed;
 Wherefore I passed Virgilius and drew near,
 So that before mine eyes it might be set.

There sculptured in the self-same marble were
 The cart and oxen, drawing the holy ark,
 Wherefore one dreads an office not appointed.

People appeared in front, and all of them
 In seven choirs divided, of two senses
 Made one say "No," the other, "Yes, they sing."

Likewise unto the smoke of the frankincense,
 Which there was imaged forth, the eyes and nose
 Were in the yes and no discordant made.

Preceded there the vessel benedight,
 Dancing with girded loins, the humble Psalmist,
 And more and less than King was he in this.

Opposite, represented at the window
 Of a great palace, Michal looked upon him,
 Even as a woman scornful and afflicted.

I moved my feet from where I had been standing,
 To examine near at hand another story,
 Which after Michal glimmered white upon me.

There the high glory of the Roman Prince
 Was chronicled, whose great beneficence
 Moved Gregory to his great victory;

'Tis of the Emperor Trajan I am speaking;
 And a poor widow at his bridle stood,
 In attitude of weeping and of grief.

Around about him seemed it thronged and full
 Of cavaliers, and the eagles in the gold
 Above them visibly in the wind were moving.

The wretched woman in the midst of these
 Seemed to be saying: "Give me vengeance, Lord,
 For my dead son, for whom my heart is breaking."

And he to answer her: "Now wait until
 I shall return." And she: "My Lord," like one
 In whom grief is impatient, "shouldst thou not

Return?" And he: "Who shall be where I am
 Will give it thee." And sh
e: "Good deed of others
 What boots it thee, if thou neglect thine own?"

Whence he: "Now comfort thee, for it behoves me
 That I discharge my duty ere I move;
 Justice so wills, and pity doth retain me."

He who on no new thing has ever looked
 Was the creator of this visible language,
 Novel to us, for here it is not found.

While I delighted me in contemplating
 The images of such humility,
 And dear to look on for their Maker's sake,

"Behold, upon this side, but rare they make
 Their steps," the Poet murmured, "many people;
 These will direct us to the lofty stairs."

Mine eyes, that in beholding were intent
 To see new things, of which they curious are,
 In turning round towards him were not slow.

But still I wish not, Reader, thou shouldst swerve
 From thy good purposes, because thou hearest
 How God ordaineth that the debt be paid;

Attend not to the fashion of the torment,
 Think of what follows; think that at the worst
 It cannot reach beyond the mighty sentence.

"Master," began I, "that which I behold
 Moving towards us seems to me not persons,
 And what I know not, so in sight I waver."

And he to me: "The grievous quality
 Of this their torment bows them so to earth,
 That my own eyes at first contended with it;

But look there fixedly, and disentangle
 By sight what cometh underneath those stones;
 Already canst thou see how each is stricken."

O ye proud Christians! wretched, weary ones!
 Who, in the vision of the mind infirm
 Confidence have in your backsliding steps,

Do ye not comprehend that we are worms,
 Born to bring forth the angelic butterfly
 That flieth unto judgment without screen?

Why floats aloft your spirit high in air?
 Like are ye unto insects undeveloped,
 Even as the worm in whom formation fails!

As to sustain a ceiling or a roof,
 In place of corbel, oftentimes a figure
 Is seen to join its knees unto its breast,

Which makes of the unreal real anguish
 Arise in him who sees it, fashioned thus
 Beheld I those, when I had ta'en good heed.

True is it, they were more or less b
ent down,
 According as they more or less were laden;
 And he who had most patience in his looks

Weeping did seem to say, "I can no more!"

Purgatorio: Canto XI

"Our Father, thou who dwellest in the heavens,
 Not circumscribed, but from the greater love
 Thou bearest to the first effects on high,

Praised be thy name and thine omnipotence
 By every creature, as befitting is
 To render thanks to thy sweet effluence.

Come unto us the peace of thy dominion,
 For unto it we cannot of ourselves,
 If it come not, with all our intellect.

Even as thine own Angels of their will
 Make sacrifice to thee, Hosanna singing,
 So may all men make sacrifice of theirs.

Give unto us this day our daily manna,
 Withouten which in this rough wilderness
 Backward goes he who toils most to advance.

And even as we the trespass we have suffered
 Pardon in one another, pardon thou
 Benignly, and regard not our desert.

Our virtue, which is easily o'ercome,
 Put not to proof with the old Adversary,
 But thou from him who spurs it so, deliver.

This last petition verily, dear Lord,
 Not for ourselves is made, who need it not,
 But for their sake who have remained behind us."

Thus for themselves and us good furtherance
 Those shades imploring, went beneath a weight
 Like unto that of which we sometimes dream,

Unequally in anguish round and round
 And weary all, upon that foremost cornice,
 Purging away the smoke-stains of the world.

If there good words are always said for us,
 What may not here be said and done for them,
 By those who have a good root to their will?

Well may we help them wash away the marks
 That hence they carried, so that clean and light
 They may ascend unto the starry wheels!

"Ah! so may pity and justice you disburden
 Soon, that ye may have power to move the wing,
 That shall uplift you after your desire,

Show us on which hand tow'rd the stairs the way
 Is shortest, and if more than one the passes,
 Point us out that which least abruptly falls;

For he who cometh with me, through the burden
 Of Adam's flesh w
herewith he is invested,
 Against his will is chary of his climbing."

The words of theirs which they returned to those
 That he whom I was following had spoken,
 It was not manifest from whom they came,

But it was said: "To the right hand come with us
 Along the bank, and ye shall find a pass
 Possible for living person to ascend.

And were I not impeded by the stone,
 Which this proud neck of mine doth subjugate,
 Whence I am forced to hold my visage down,

Him, who still lives and does not name himself,
 Would I regard, to see if I may know him
 And make him piteous unto this burden.

A Latian was I, and born of a great Tuscan;
 Guglielmo Aldobrandeschi was my father;
 I know not if his name were ever with you.

The ancient blood and deeds of gallantry
 Of my progenitors so arrogant made me
 That, thinking not upon the common mother,

All men I held in scorn to such extent
 I died therefor, as know the Sienese,
 And every child in Campagnatico.

I am Omberto; and not to me alone
 Has pride done harm, but all my kith and kin
 Has with it dragged into adversity.

And here must I this burden bear for it
 Till God be satisfied, since I did not
 Among the living, here among the dead."

Listening I downward bent my countenance;
 And one of them, not this one who was speaking,
 Twisted himself beneath the weight that cramps him,

And looked at me, and knew me, and called out,
 Keeping his eyes laboriously fixed
 On me, who all bowed down was going with them.

"O," asked I him, "art thou not Oderisi,
 Agobbio's honour, and honour of that art
 Which is in Paris called illuminating?"

"Brother," said he, "more laughing are the leaves
 Touched by the brush of Franco Bolognese;
 All his the honour now, and mine in part.

In sooth I had not been so courteous
 While I was living, for the great desire
 Of excellence, on which my heart was bent.

Here of such pride is paid the forfeiture;
 And yet I should not be here, were it not
 That, having power to sin, I turned to God.

O thou vain glory of the human powers,
 How littl
e green upon thy summit lingers,
 If't be not followed by an age of grossness!

In painting Cimabue thought that he
 Should hold the field, now Giotto has the cry,
 So that the other's fame is growing dim.

So has one Guido from the other taken
 The glory of our tongue, and he perchance
 Is born, who from the nest shall chase them both.

Naught is this mundane rumour but a breath
 Of wind, that comes now this way and now that,
 And changes name, because it changes side.

What fame shalt thou have more, if old peel off
 From thee thy flesh, than if thou hadst been dead
 Before thou left the 'pappo' and the 'dindi,'

Ere pass a thousand years? which is a shorter
 Space to the eterne, than twinkling of an eye
 Unto the circle that in heaven wheels slowest.

With him, who takes so little of the road
 In front of me, all Tuscany resounded;
 And now he scarce is lisped of in Siena,

Where he was lord, what time was overthrown
 The Florentine delirium, that superb
 Was at that day as now 'tis prostitute.

Your reputation is the colour of grass
 Which comes and goes, and that discolours it
 By which it issues green from out the earth."

And I: "Thy true speech fills my heart with good
 Humility, and great tumour thou assuagest;
 But who is he, of whom just now thou spakest?"

"That," he replied, "is Provenzan Salvani,
 And he is here because he had presumed
 To bring Siena all into his hands.

He has gone thus, and goeth without rest
 E'er since he died; such money renders back
 In payment he who is on earth too daring."

And I: "If every spirit who awaits
 The verge of life before that he repent,
 Remains below there and ascends not hither,

(Unless good orison shall him bestead,)
 Until as much time as he lived be passed,
 How was the coming granted him in largess?"

"When he in greatest splendour lived," said he,
 "Freely upon the Campo of Siena,
 All shame being laid aside, he placed himself;

And there to draw his friend from the duress
 Which in the prison-house of Charles he suffered,
 He brought himself to trembl
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Andrew Heath, Joshua Hutchinson, Audrey Longhurst
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

365 FOREIGN DISHES

A Foreign Dish for every day in the year

1908

_JANUARY._

1.--Austrian Goulasch.

Boil 2 calves' heads in salted water until tender; then cut the meat
from the bone. Fry 1 dozen small peeled onions and 3 potatoes, cut
into dice pieces; stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour and the sauce in
which the meat was cooked. Let boil up, add the sliced meat, 1
teaspoonful of paprica and salt to taste; let all cook together
fifteen minutes then serve very hot.

2.--East India Fish.

Slice 1/2 pound of cooked salmon; then heat 1 ounce of butter in a
stew-pan; add 2 small onions chopped fine, 1 ounce of cocoanut, 2
hard-boiled eggs chopped. Let cook a few minutes, then add 1 pint of
milk; let boil up once. Add the fish, 1 teaspoonful of curry paste, 1
teaspoonful of paprica and salt to taste. Let cook a few minutes, then
stir in 1 large tablespoonful of boiled rice. Serve very hot
with toast.

3.--English Gems.

Cream 1 cup of butter with 2 cups of brown sugar; add 4 beaten eggs, 1
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 1 large cup of strong coffee, 1 cup
of molasses, 4 cups of sifted flour, 1/2 teaspoonful each of nutmeg,
allspice, cloves and mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar sifted
with 1/2 cup of flour, 1 cup of raisins, 1/2 cup of currants and
chopped citron. Mix well and fill buttered gem pans 1/2 full and bake
until done. Then cover with chocolate icing.

4.--Turkish Pudding.

Dissolve 1/2 box of gelatin; chop 1/4 pound of dates and mix with 2
ounces of boiled rice, 1/2 cup of pulverized sugar and 1 teaspoonful
of vanilla; then mix the gelatin with 1 pint of whipped cream. Mix all
well together and turn into a mold and stand on ice until cold.
Sprinkle with chopped nuts. Serve with whipped cream.

5.--Chinese Chicken.

Cut a fat chicken into pieces at the joints; season with all kinds of
condiments; then put in a deep saucepan. Add some chopped ham, a few
sliced bamboo sprouts, 1 chopped onion and a handful o
f walnuts. Cover
with hot water and let stew slowly until tender. Add some Chinese
sauce and parsley. Serve with shredded pineapple.

6.--Scotch Scones.

Sift 1-1/2 pints of flour; add a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of soda
mixed with 1 pint of sour milk. Mix to a soft dough. Lay on a
well-floured baking-board and roll 1 inch thick. Cut with a round
cake-cutter and bake on a hot greased griddle until brown on both
sides. Serve hot with butter.

7.--Egyptian Meat Balls.

Chop 1 pound of raw beef; season with salt, pepper and 1 teaspoonful
of curry-powder; add 2 stalks of chopped celery, 1 small onion and
some chopped parsley. Mix with 2 beaten eggs and 1/2 cup of
bread-crumbs, and make into small balls. Let cook in hot butter until
tender. Serve on a border of boiled rice and pour over all a highly
seasoned tomato-sauce.

8.--Austrian Potato Dumplings.

Peel 5 potatoes and boil whole in salted water until tender. Drain,
let get cold, then grate them and mix with 4 eggs and 1 ounce of
butter; add salt to taste. Mix well; add flour enough to form into
dumplings and fry in deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot with
cooked fruit.

9.--Belgian Rice Dessert.

Cook 1 pint of milk; add 1/2 cup of boiled rice and some currants;
stir in the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten with 2 tablespoonfuls of
sugar. Remove from the fire. Add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla; then form
into cylinders. Dip in beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs and fry a
golden brown. Sprinkle with pulverized sugar and put some red currant
jelly on top and serve.

10.--Bavarian Pear Pudding.

Soak 1/2 loaf of bread and press dry. Mix with 1/2 pound of chopped
suet; add a teaspoonful of salt, 1 cup of sugar, 2 eggs and the grated
peel of a lemon, a pinch of cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Add some
sifted flour; mix well, and form into a large ball. Then peel 1 quart
of pears. Cut in half, and lay in a large saucepan a layer of pears;
sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and grated lemon peel. Lay in the
pudding; cover with a layer of pears and pour over all 3
tablespoonfuls of sy
rup. Fill with cold water and boil half an hour;
then bake three hours and serve hot.

11.--French Pineapple Bisque.

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cup of pulverized sugar; add 1 pint of
cream; stir well until very light. Then add 1 small can of shredded
pineapple and crush a few macaroons. Mix well with a small glass of
brandy. Let freeze and serve in small glasses.

12.--Russian Pancakes.

Make a pancake batter and fry in thin cakes. Then spread them with a
layer of anchovies, butter and a layer of caviare. Sprinkle with
minced shallots, cayenne pepper and lemon-juice. Roll up and serve hot
as possible.

13.--Egyptian Cabbage.

Parboil a cabbage in salted water; drain and stuff with chopped cooked
mutton. Mix with chopped ham, 1 onion and 2 sprigs of parsley chopped
fine. Add 1/2 cup of cooked rice, salt and pepper to taste. Place in a
buttered baking-dish; sprinkle with bits of butter; add the juice of a
lemon, and let bake in a moderate oven until done. Baste often with
butter and serve hot.

14.--Madras Baked Fish.

Season a fish with salt, pepper, some grated green ginger and
curry-powder. Place in a baking-pan with 1 sliced onion, 2 chopped
green peppers and 1 sprig of parsley. Pour over some water and hot
melted butter; sprinkle with flour and bake until done. Garnish with
sliced lemon and parsley.

15.--Norwegian Salad.

Cut some pickled herring into pieces and mix with flaked lax, 2 peeled
apples and 2 boiled potatoes. Cut into dice pieces; add some chopped
shallots and gherkins; sprinkle with finely minced tarragon and
chervil, salt and pepper. Cover with a plain salad dressing.

16.--Dutch Eggs.

Heat some butter in a pan; then break in as many eggs as needed and
fry them; add some sliced onions. Remove the eggs to a platter;
arrange the onions on the eggs; sprinkle with salt and red pepper and
pour over some lemon-juice. Serve as hot as possible on toast.

17.--Bavarian Wine Soup.

Mix 3 pints of red wine with 1 pint of water. Add sugar, nutmeg and
cinnamon to taste and the grated peel of half a le
mon. Let come to a
boil; then stir in the yolks of 2 well-beaten eggs. Do not boil again.
Serve hot with biscuits.

18.--English Stuffed Goose.

Season a fat goose with salt and pepper, and rub well with vinegar.
Then core small apples and fill the goose with the whole apples. Put
in the baking-pan, sprinkle with flour; pour over 1 cup of hot water;
add a lump of butter and bake until done. Baste often with the sauce
in the pan. Serve the goose with the whole apples.

19.--Vienna Peach Torte.

Make a rich pie-dough; then line a pie-dish with the dough. Pare and
remove the stones from the peaches and cut into quarters. Lay closely
on the pie; sprinkle with brown sugar and moisten with wine. Bake in a
moderate oven until done. Then spread with a meringue and let brown in
the oven a few minutes.

20.--Egyptian Meat-Pie.

Line a large baking-dish with pie-dough. Have ready 1/2 pound of
calf's liver chopped, and 1/2 pound of fresh pork chopped fine. Season
highly and mix with 1/2 cup of butter, 2 green peppers, 1 onion
chopped and 1/2 can of chopped mushrooms. Moisten with a glass of
sherry. Fill the dish with the mixture and cover with the dough. Let
bake until done and serve hot.

21.--Russian Boiled Fish.

Clean and season a whole fish and let boil with 1 sliced onion, 1/2
cup of vinegar, a few slices of lemon and 2 sprigs of parsley. Add a
tablespoonful of butter and let cook until tender. Remove the fish to
a platter; mix the sauce with 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar, a pinch
of ginger, cinnamon and nutmeg and the juice of a lemon. Let boil
well; then thicken with the yolks of 2 beaten eggs and pour over the
fish. Serve cold. Garnish with lemon-slices and olives.

22.--Spanish Cake.

Beat 1 pound of butter with 1 pound of sugar to a cream. Add the yolks
of 8 eggs well beaten. Sift 1 pound of flour with 2 teaspoonfuls of
baking-powder and stir together with 1 cup of milk. Add the whites of
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Flavor with
rose-water. Bake in a moderate oven until done.

23.--Vienna S
tewed Carrots.

Peel some carrots and cut in small pieces. Boil in salted water until
tender; drain. Brown 1 tablespoonful of flour in 2 tablespoonfuls of
butter; add 1/2 cup of the water in which the carrots were cooked, 2
tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a little sugar. Let all boil; then add
the carrots and 1 cup of cooked peas, some chopped parsley and a pinch
of pepper. Simmer ten minutes and serve hot.

24.--Russian Fish-Roll.

Chop some cooked trout and white fish, and mix with 1/2 cup of boiled
rice. Season with salt, pepper and all kinds of herbs minced fine.
Then make a rich pie-paste and roll out very thin. Fill with the
mixture and make into a roll. Sprinkle with bits of butter and let
bake until brown. Serve hot with wine-sauce.

25.--India Curried Eggs.

Cut hard-boiled eggs in halves; then fry 1 small chopped onion and 1
chopped apple in hot butter; add 1/4 cup of pounded almonds and 1 pint
of milk, mixed with 1/2 tablespoonful of cornstarch. Season with salt
and a dessertspoonful of curry-powder. Let cook ten minutes; then add
the eggs. Let all get very hot. Serve with croutons; garnish with
fried parsley.

26.--Codfish a la Lyonnaise.

Cut cold boiled codfish in pieces; then boil 8 small onions until
soft; heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Add the boiled onions, 2 small
cold sliced potatoes, the codfish and 1 cup of milk; sprinkle with
pepper. Cover and simmer ten minutes and serve hot.

27.--Jewish Crebchen Soup.

Beat 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of water and a pinch of salt; then
add enough flour to make a stiff dough. Work it well with flour and
roll out as thin as possible; fold it double and cut into square
pieces and fill with minced cooked chicken or veal. Sprinkle with
chopped parsley and bits of butter; fold in the edges. Have ready some
soup stock; when boiling, add the crebchen and let boil until done.
Serve with the soup.

28.--French Veal Souffle.

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Mix with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour
until smooth; add 1 cup of milk; let boil up. Then add 1 cup of minced
v
eal, some parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste. Stir in the
yolks of 2 eggs. Remove from the fire; let cool. Beat the whites to a
stiff froth; add to the meat. Put in a buttered baking-dish and bake
twenty minutes. Serve at once.

29.--Belgian Potato Salad.

Slice cold boiled potatoes very thin and mix with chopped celery and
onion; season with salt and pepper. Then mix the yolks of 2
hard-boiled eggs with 1 tablespoonful of olive-oil. Add to the salad
with 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Sprinkle with chopped parsley
and serve.

30.--Polish Stewed Tongue.

Cook a fresh tongue until tender; skin and slice thin. Put a large
spoonful of butter in a saucepan; add a chopped onion; let brown. Then
stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour; add 2 cups of the water in which the
tongue was cooked, a pinch of nutmeg and cinnamon. Let boil with the
juice of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 1 tablespoonful of
sugar. Add the sliced tongue and simmer ten minutes. Serve hot
or cold.

31.--Rissotto (ITALIAN).

Boil 1 cup of rice in salted water until soft; drain. Then grate
Parmesan cheese and cover the rice with cheese. Let steam in the oven
a few minutes; then pour over some highly seasoned tomato-sauce, and
serve hot with fried veal chops.

_FEBRUARY._

1.--Oriental Canapes.

Take some lobster or crab-meat and pound in a mortar. Mix with 1
tablespoonful of butter; season with salt and pepper, a pinch each of
mustard, cayenne, nutmeg and curry-powder and moisten with
lemon-juice. Cut small rounds of toasted bread; scoop out some of the
centre; fill with the mixture and cover with a curry sauce. Sprinkle
with fine bread-crumbs and let bake in the oven a few minutes.
Serve hot.

2.--Haggis (SCOTCH).

Chop a sheep's tongue, liver and heart and 1 pound of bacon. Add 2
large chopped onions; season with 1/4 teaspoonful of red pepper and 1
teaspoonful of mixed herbs and salt to taste. Mix with 1 pint of
toasted oatmeal, 2 beaten eggs and the grated rind and juice of a
lemon. Then clean the pouch of the sheep and fill with the mixtu
re.
Lay in boiling water and let boil three hours. Serve with apple-sauce.

3.--Austrian Braised Tongue.

Boil a large fresh beef tongue in salted water until tender. Remove
the tongue and lard it with thin strips of bacon; sprinkle with
paprica; lay in a baking-pan; add 1 onion sliced thin and 1 cup of the
water in which the tongue was cooked and pour over 1 pint of cream.
Let bake in a moderate oven. Baste often with the sauce. Serve hot,
and pour over the sauce; garnish with parsley.

4.--Russian Omelet.

Chop 2 shallots with a little parsley and cook in hot water. Add 2
tablespoonfuls of caviare and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; season to
taste. Beat 4 eggs with 1 tablespoonful of cream, salt and pepper, and
fry in an omelet-pan with hot butter until done. Put the mixture in
the centre; turn in the ends and serve at once.

5.--Madras Potato Curry.

Cut boiled potatoes into thin slices; then fry 1 chopped onion in 2
tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 3 ounces of grated cocoanut, 1
teaspoonful of curry-powder and 1 cup of milk, salt and cayenne pepper
to taste. Let boil up. Add the sliced potatoes and a sprig of parsley
chopped. Let simmer a few minutes and serve hot.

6.--Swiss Baked Eggs.

Melt 1 ounce of butter in a baking-pan; then cover the bottom of the
pan with thin slices of Swiss cheese. Break in 6 eggs; sprinkle with
salt and pepper. Pour over 4 tablespoonfuls of cream; sprinkle with
grated Swiss cheese, and let bake in the oven to a delicate brown.
Serve hot.

7.--Jewish Stewed Shad.

Clean and cut a shad into large slices; sprinkle with salt, pepper and
ginger. Put on to boil with 1 sliced onion, 1 bay-leaf, a few cloves,
2 sprigs of parsley and 1/2 cup of vinegar. When done, remove the fish
to a platter; add 1/2 cup of raisins, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1/2
cup of pounded almonds, 1 glass of wine, 1 tablespoonful of brown
sugar and a pinch of cinnamon. Let boil until done and pour over the
fish. Garnish with sliced lemon and sprigs of parsley and serve cold.

8.--Bombay Spinach.

Boil the spinach in sa
lted water until tender; drain and chop fine.
Fry 1 chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add the chopped
spinach, a pinch of pepper and curry-powder. Cover and let simmer five
minutes. Serve on a platter with stewed prawns and garnish
with croutons.

9.--Spanish Fricasseed Shrimps.

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add 1 onion chopped and 2 cups of
tomatoes. Let fry; then stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour; add 1/2 cup
of water; let boil; add 1 quart of shrimps, salt, pepper and parsley.
Let all cook twenty minutes. Stir in the yolk of an egg. Remove from
the fire. Put some boiled rice on a platter; add the shrimps and pour
over the sauce. Serve very hot.

10.--Irish Baked Potatoes.

Peel and boil potatoes in salted water until tender; drain and mash
with a lump of butter. Put in a well-buttered baking-dish a layer of
the potatoes and a layer of fried bread-crumbs until dish is full.
Moisten with beaten eggs, well seasoned with salt and pepper, and 3
tablespoonfuls of milk. Put in the oven to brown. Serve with
boiled fish.

11.--Russian Stewed Chicken.

Cut a fat chicken into pieces at the joints and let stew, well
seasoned with salt and pepper. Then add some small whole onions, some
cauliflower, mushrooms and 1 cup of French peas. Let all cook until
tender; then serve hot on a large platter.

12.--Dutch Baked Mackerel.

Place the mackerel in a baking-dish; sprinkle with pepper and chopped
parsley. Cover with fried bread-crumbs and bits of butter, and moisten
with cream. Then bake until brown on top and serve hot with
stewed potatoes.

13.--Polish Roast Mutton.

Season a leg of mutton with salt, pepper and a pinch of cloves. Lay in
a baking-pan with 1 sliced onion, 2 celery roots, 3 cloves of garlic
and 2 carrots cut fine, 1 bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and a few
peppercorns. Pour over 1 cup of vinegar and 1 cup of hot water. Dredge
with flour and let bake in a hot oven. Baste often with the sauce in
the pan until nearly done; then add 1 pint of sour cream and let bake
until done. Thicken with flour; boil up 
and pour over the roast.

14.--Italian Sugar Cakes.

Beat 1-1/2 pounds of sugar and 1/2 pound of butter to a cream; add 4
yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt and nutmeg. Stir in 1/2 pound of flour,
4 ounces of currants, 2 ounces of chopped almonds, 1 tablespoonful of
citron and candied orange peel chopped fine. Add the whites beaten
stiff and bake in small well-buttered cake-tins until done; then cover
with a thin icing.

15.--Oriental Stewed Prawns.

Clean and pick 3 dozen prawns. Heat some dripping in a large saucepan;
add the prawns, 1 chopped onion, salt, pepper and 1 teaspoonful of
curry-powder. Add 1 pint of stock and let simmer half an hour until
tender. Serve on a border of boiled rice; garnish with fried parsley.

16.--Swiss Steak.

Season a round steak with salt, black pepper and paprica; dredge with
flour and let fry in hot lard on both sides until brown. Then add some
sliced onions and moisten well with tomato-sauce. Cover and let simmer
half an hour. Serve hot on a platter with mashed potatoes.

17.--Berlin Herring Salad.

Soak the herring over night; remove the milch and mash fine. Cut off
the head, skin and bone; chop the herring; add chopped apples,
pickles, potatoes, olives and capers. Put in the salad bowl; then add
the yolk of a hard-boiled egg to the mashed milch, mustard, 1
teaspoonful of sugar mixed with 1/4 cup of vinegar and a little
lemon-juice, salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over the salad and
garnish with olives and sliced lemon.

18.--German Lentil Soup.

To 1 gallon of soup stock, add 1 quart of lentils. Let boil until
lentils are soft, with 1 sliced onion. Then add some small sausages.
Let boil five minutes. Season to taste and serve the soup with the
sausages and croutons fried in butter.

19.--French Spiced Venison.

Rub the venison with salt, pepper, vinegar, cloves and allspice; then
put in a baking-pan. Pour over a cup of melted butter; add 1 onion
sliced, some thyme, parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a cup of hot
water. Let bake, covered, in a hot oven. Baste often with the sauce

when nearly done. Sprinkle with flour; add a glass of sherry and let
brown. Serve with celery and currant jelly.

20.--Spanish Mushrooms.

Drain 1 can of mushrooms and heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 6
shallots and 1 clove of garlic chopped fine, some parsley and thyme
and the mushrooms. Let all fry a few minutes; then add the mushroom
liquor and 2 tablespoonfuls of white wine, salt and pepper to taste.
Let simmer five minutes and serve hot on slices of toast.

21.--Vienna Noodle Pudding.

Boil some fine noodles in salted water for ten minutes; let drain.
Beat the yolks of 5 eggs with 1 cup of pulverized sugar and mix with
the noodles. Add 1/2 cup of raisins, 1/2 cup of pounded almonds, a
pinch of cinnamon and the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Put in
a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake until brown. Serve hot with
lemon sauce.

22.--Dutch Sweet Potato Puff.

Peel and boil 3 sweet potatoes in salted water until tender; then mash
well with 3 beaten yolks of eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of nutmeg and lemon-juice.
Beat the whites with a pinch of salt to a stiff froth; add to the
potatoes and put in a well buttered baking-dish and bake. Serve hot.

23.--Spaghetti (ITALIAN).

Boil 1/2 pound of spaghetti until tender. Drain. Heat 1 tablespoonful
of butter, stir in 1/2 pound of grated cheese, salt and pepper. Then
add 1 cup of milk; let boil and pour over the spaghetti. Sprinkle with
salt, pepper and grated cheese and let bake in the oven until done.
Serve hot.

24.--Russian Beet Soup.

Boil 5 medium-sized beets until tender; then chop and add to a highly
seasoned chicken broth. Add the juice of 1 lemon, some cinnamon and
nutmeg; let boil fifteen minutes. Then add 1 glass of red wine, mixed
with a teaspoonful of brown sugar. Let boil a few minutes longer and
serve with fried croutons.

25.--Boulettes.

Chop and mince 1 pound of round steak, 1 onion and 2 sprigs of
parsley. Add 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of
melted butter. Season hig
hly with salt, black pepper and a pinch of
cayenne. Mix with 1 egg and form into balls; roll in flour and fry in
deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot with tomato-sauce.

26.--Baden Stewed Lentils.

Boil 1 quart of lentils until tender; then heat 2 tablespoonfuls of
butter. Add 1 chopped onion and stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour until
brown; add some cold water mixed with vinegar. Let boil and pour the
sauce over the lentils. Season with salt and pepper, and serve with
small boiled sausages. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs fried in
butter until brown.

27.--Duck aux Champignons.

Clean and season a pair of wild ducks and cut into pieces at the
joints. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan; add the ducks,
1 large onion chopped fine, 2 cloves of garlic and 1 herb bouquet
chopped. Cover and brown a few minutes; add 1 cup of water and stew
until tender. Then add 1/2 can of mushrooms and 1 glass of claret and
let simmer until done.

28.--Hungarian Beef Stew.

Cut beef into small pieces. Heat some dripping in a saucepan; add the
meat, salt and black pepper; cover and let stew half an hour. Then add
3 potatoes cut into dice pieces, 1 onion sliced thin, 1 cup of hot
water, and 1/2 teaspoonful of paprica. Let all cook until tender. Then
add some chopped parsley and thicken the sauce with flour, mixed in
1/2 cup of milk. Let cook a few minutes and serve hot.

_MARCH._

1.--Chicken Chop Suey (CHINESE).

Cut all the meat of a chicken into thin strips; season with black
pepper, and cayenne, and fry in hot lard. Add some ham, onion, celery,
green bean sprouts and mushrooms cut fine. Moisten with 1/2 cup of
stock. Add 1/4 cup of Chinese sauce; cover and let simmer until
tender. Thicken the sauce with flour; add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream
and chopped parsley. Serve hot on a platter with boiled rice.

2.--Jewish Shallet.

Line a well-buttered pudding-dish with a rich pie-paste and cover with
a layer of sliced apples. Sprinkle with cinnamon, grated lemon peel
and small bits of butter, and moisten with white wine; then co
ver with
a layer of the paste and fill with another layer of apples, nuts and
raisins, a tablespoonful of syrup, the juice of 1/2 lemon and bits of
butter. Cover with the top crust; press in the edges with a beaten
egg, and rub the top with butter. Let bake in a moderate oven
until done.

3.--Russian Relish.

Cut some slices of brown bread into fingers half an inch thick; spread
with butter. Mix some Russian caviare with lemon-juice to taste and a
tablespoonful of finely chopped shallots. Spread the fingers with the
mixture and place an oyster in the centre of each. Sprinkle with salt
and a pinch of paprica. Serve. Garnish with thin slices of lemon
and parsley.

4.--Dutch Stuffed Potatoes.

Select fine smooth potatoes; cut off the end of each and scrape out
the inside. Mix this with chopped ham, onion and parsley, and a
tablespoonful of butter. Season with salt, pepper and lemon-juice.
Fill the potato with the mixture and let bake in a moderate oven until
tender and serve hot.

5.--Fish a la Marseilles.

Cut two kinds of fish into slices; season with salt. Mince 2 cloves of
garlic, 2 sprigs of parsley, 2 sprigs of thyme and 2 bay-leaves very
fine. Add a pinch of pepper. Roll the fish in the spice. Then fry 2
sliced onions in butter; add 1 cup of tomatoes, the juice of a lemon
and 2 cups of water. Let boil up. Add the fish and let boil until
done. Remove the fish to a platter. Add a cup of white wine to the
sauce and 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Boil up and pour over the fish.
Serve with toast.

6.--Jewish Stewed Brains.

Clean and stew the brains with 1/2 cup of vinegar, 1 sliced onion,
salt and pepper. Add a tablespoonful of brown sugar, 1/2 cup of
raisins. Let stew until tender. Remove the brains to a platter; add a
lump of butter and a tablespoonful of molasses to the sauce; boil up
and pour over the brains. Serve cold; garnish with lemon slices.

7.--Austrian Apple Strudel.

Mix 1 pint of flour with 1/2 cup of water, 4 ounces of butter, 3 eggs
and a pinch of salt to a stiff dough; then roll out as thin as
possib
le. Pour over some melted butter; cover with chopped apples and
raisins. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Make a large roll; bake in
a buttered baking-pan with flakes of butter on top until brown.

8.--Vienna Nut Torte.

Blanch 1/4 pound of almonds and pound in a mortar. Then beat 4 eggs
with 1/2 cup of sugar. Add 1 teaspoonful of brandy and a teaspoonful
of wine and lemon-juice; add 4 lady fingers crumbled up fine. Beat all
together with the nuts; put in a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake.
Serve with wine sauce.

9.--Bavarian Cabbage Salad.

Chop a cabbage with 1 large onion and 2 stalks of celery and 2
peppers; season well with salt and sprinkle with pepper. Heat some
vinegar; add a teaspoonful of prepared mustard. Then beat the yolks of
2 eggs with a tablespoonful of sugar; add the hot vinegar slowly to
the beaten eggs and mix with the cabbage. Serve cold.

10.--Russian Stewed Duck.

Clean and cut the duck into pieces and season with salt and pepper;
then cut 1/2 pound of bacon into dice pieces and put in a large
saucepan with 1 onion and 2 carrots. Cut fine 1 herb bouquet, a few
cloves and a few peppercorns; add the duck. Let all cook slowly with 1
cup of stock until tender; then add 1 cup of red wine. Thicken the
sauce with flour, boil and serve hot.

11.--Russian Chicken Patties.

Chop the white meat of cooked chicken and turkey very fine and mix
with 3 chopped truffles and some chopped parsley. Season with the
grated peel of 1/2 lemon, a pinch of nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste,
and moisten with cream. Make a puff-paste and roll out very thin. Cut
into squares and fill with a tablespoonful of the mixture. Press the
ends together and fry in deep hot lard until a light brown. Drain and
serve very hot with tomato-sauce.

12.--Japanese Salad.

Cut some celery, apples and truffles into fine shreds and mix with
chrysanthemum flowers; season with salt and pepper. Put in a salad
bowl and cover with a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with chopped
hard-boiled eggs and olives.

13.--Polish Chops.

Season veal chops 
with salt and pepper and let fry a few minutes in
hot dripping. Remove the chops and cover with a mixture of bacon,
liver, onions and parsley minced fine and well seasoned. Then let bake
in the oven with 1 cup of beef broth. Baste often and serve very hot.

14.--Spanish Stewed Rabbit.

Clean and parboil 2 rabbits; then cut into pieces. Sprinkle with flour
and fry in hot lard. Remove the rabbits. Add chopped tomato and onion
to the sauce; mix with flour; let fry; add the sauce in which the
rabbit was cooked, some lemon-juice, 1/2 teaspoonful of red pepper,
parsley and salt to taste. Cook ten minutes; then add the rabbit and
simmer five minutes. Serve hot with boiled rice.

15.--Scotch Baked Mutton.

Season a leg of mutton well with salt and pepper. Dredge with flour
and let bake in a hot oven until nearly done. Then add some boiled
turnips cut in quarters; sprinkle with pepper and flour; let bake
until browned. Serve the mutton on a platter with the turnips.

16.--Belgian Stuffed Shad.

Season and stuff the shad with chopped oysters and mushrooms well
seasoned. Place in a well-buttered baking-dish; sprinkle with fine
bread-crumbs, chopped onion and parsley. Put flakes of butter on top
and pour in 1 cup of tomato-sauce. Let bake until done. Baste often
with the sauce. Serve with celery salad with French dressing.

17.--Italian Roast Beef.

Cut several deep incisions in the upper round of beef and press into
them lardoons of salt pork. Stick 2 cloves of sliced garlic and 1
dozen cloves in the meat; season with salt and pepper and dredge with
flour. Put in the dripping-pan with some hot water and let roast until
tender. Serve with boiled macaroni.

18.--French Apple Souffle.

Cook apples and sweeten to taste. Mash well with 1 tablespoonful of
butter. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, the
juice and rind of 1/2 lemon; add the whites beaten to a stiff froth.
Put in a buttered pudding-dish and bake in a moderate oven until done.

19.--German Sweet Pretzels.

Mix 1/2 pound of flour with 1/2 pound of
 fresh butter; add 1/4 pound
of sugar, 1 egg and 1 beaten yolk, 1 tablespoonful of sweet cream and
some grated lemon peel. Mix thoroughly and mold the dough into small
wreaths; brush the top with the yolk of an egg and sprinkle with
powdered sweet almonds. Lay in a well-buttered baking-tin and bake
until a deep yellow.

20.--French Waffles.

Sift 3 cups of flour with 1-1/2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and 1/2
teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs; add a tablespoonful of
melted butter and 2 cups of warm milk. Add the beaten whites and stir
in the flour, making a light batter. Grease the waffle irons and fill
with the batter. Bake until a delicate brown. Remove to a hot dish.
Serve hot with powdered sugar on top.

21.--Swedish Stewed Mutton.

Season the breast of mutton with salt, pepper, thyme and mace; let
stew slowly with 1 onion and 2 cloves of garlic chopped. Add some
chopped capers and mushrooms; cook until tender. Then thicken the
sauce with flour mixed with a glass of wine and boil up. Serve hot
with baked turnips.

22.--Swedish Pie.

Make a rich pie-dough; line a deep pie-dish with the paste and let
bake. Then fill with chopped boiled fish, oysters, shrimps and some
chopped mushrooms. Sprinkle with salt and paprica and the grated peel
of a lemon. Pour over 1/4 cup of melted butter and the juice of 1/2
lemon and a beaten egg. Then cover with the dough and let bake until
done. Serve hot.

23.--Greek Stuffed Egg-Plant.

Parboil the egg-plant and cut in half. Scrape out some of the inside
and chop some cooked lamb, 2 green peppers, 1 onion, and 2 tomatoes.
Then mix with a beaten egg, 1 tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper
to taste. Fill the halves with the mixture; sprinkle with bread-crumbs
and bits of butter. Put in a baking-dish with a little stock and bake.

24.--Norwegian Fish Pudding.

Remove the bones from a large cooked fish and chop to a fine mince.
Mix with 2 beaten eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of
butter, season with salt, black pepper and 1/4 teaspoonful of paprica.

Beat well together with some bread-crumbs; fill a mold with the
pudding and let steam one hour; then boil the sauce in which the fish
was cooked, add 1 tablespoonful of butter, chopped parsley and chopped
onion. Season highly; boil and serve with the pudding.

25.--Japanese Eggs.

Cook some rice in a rich chicken stock; place on a platter. Fry 6 eggs
and trim neatly; sprinkle with salt, black pepper, chopped parsley and
lemon-juice. Put the eggs on the rice and pour a little hot
tomato-sauce over the base of the platter and serve.

26.--Jewish Stewed Brisket.

Boil beef brisket until tender, and slice thin. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls
of butter; add 1 chopped onion. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour until
brown. Add the water in which the meat was cooked, 1/2 cup of raisins,
1/2 cup of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar and some cinnamon
and 1 carrot sliced thin, salt, pepper and a few cloves. Let boil. Add
the brisket and simmer fifteen minutes. Serve hot or cold.

27.--Hungarian Fruit Roll.

Make a pie-dough. Roll out and spread with melted butter, raisins,
currants, chopped apples, nuts and shredded citron. Cover well with
brown sugar and sprinkle with cinnamon and the grated peel of a lemon.
Roll up the dough. Lay in a buttered baking-pan. Rub the top well with
melted butter and let bake until brown. Serve with wine sauce.

28.--Dutch Stewed Fish.

Cook a large fish with 1 onion, 2 stalks of celery, parsley, a
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper until done. Remove fish to a
platter. Add 2 chopped pickles, the juice and rind of a lemon, 1/2 cup
of vinegar. Mash the yolks of 2 boiled eggs with 1 raw egg, a
teaspoonful of prepared mustard and a tablespoonful of butter. Add to
the sauce and boil. Lay the fish in the boiling sauce ten minutes;
then serve.

29.--Belgian Lamb Chops.

Season lamb chops; dredge with flour and fry until brown; keep hot.
Fry 1 chopped onion and 1 small carrot in two tablespoonfuls of
butter. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour; stir until light brown. Add 1/2
cup of water; let boil well; ad
d parsley, a few cloves and
peppercorns, salt and pepper and 1 bay-leaf minced fine. Boil well.
Add 1 glass of claret; then pour the sauce hot over the chops, and
garnish with French peas.

30.--Austrian Apple Omelet.

Peel, core and slice some apples very thin. Heat 1 large tablespoonful
of butter in a frying-pan; put in the apples and let them steam until
tender. Make an egg omelet batter; sweeten to taste and pour over the
apples; let cook until set. Cover thickly with sugar and sprinkle with
cinnamon. Serve hot with wine sauce.

31.--Fish a la Normandie.

Boil a trout well seasoned; add 1 sliced onion, 1 carrot chopped, 2
sprigs of parsley and 1 bay-leaf, a few peppercorns and 1
tablespoonful of butter. When done, beat the yolks of 2 eggs with a
little cream; add salt and a pinch of cayenne. Remove the fish to a
platter. Mix the egg sauce with the water in which the fish was
cooked; add 1/2 cup of cream. Let get very hot and pour over the fish.
Garnish with parsley. Serve hot.

_APRIL._

1.--Italian Tongue.

Boil a beef tongue until tender; skin and slice thin. Heat 2
tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 1 chopped onion and 2 cloves of garlic
minced fine. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour until brown; add a
little water, 1 cup of tomato-sauce, 1/2 cup chopped mushrooms,
lemon-juice, salt and pepper to taste. Let boil. Add the sliced
tongue, and 1/2 glass of sherry wine. Simmer ten minutes. Serve with
baked macaroni.

2.--German Prune Pudding.

Cook 1 pound of prunes in a large saucepan with sliced lemon, a piece
of stick cinnamon and brown sugar. Soak 1/2 loaf of bread in water;
press out dry. Add 3 eggs, 1/4 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves
and allspice. Add flour sifted with a teaspoonful of baking-powder.
Make into a large roll; place in the centre of the prunes; cover with
brown sugar and a tablespoonful of molasses and put in the oven to
bake until done. Serve hot or cold.

3.--Swiss Pot Roast.

Season a breast of veal with salt, pepper and ginger. Heat a cupful of
dripping; lay the meat in the stew-pan with
 the dripping, 1 onion,
some celery seed, carroway seed, a few peppercorns and parsley. Cover
and let stew slowly until nearly done; then add 1 cup of tomato-sauce
and cook slowly until tender. Serve with baked potatoes.

4.--Mushrooms a la Bordelaise.

Drain 1 can of mushrooms; chop 6 shallots very fine and saute in 1
tablespoonful of butter. Add the chopped mushrooms; sprinkle with
salt, pepper, some chopped parsley and 1 minced bay-leaf. Let cook ten
minutes with 1/2 glass of sherry wine. Serve hot on slices of
French toast.

5.--Turkish Soup.

Season and fry some lamb chops; add 2 green peppers sliced thin, 1
onion chopped and an herb bouquet. Then cook 1/2 cup of barley in 1
quart of soup stock until tender. Pour all together and let cook until
meat is very tender. Serve hot.

6.--Scotch Omelet.

Boil young tender leeks in salted water; let drain. Chop to a fine
mince and fry in hot butter. Add 6 well-beaten eggs, sprinkle with
salt and pepper and fold into an omelet and serve on a hot dish.

7.--Jewish Egg Bread.

Soak some matzoths in milk for a few minutes; then dip them into
seasoned beaten eggs. Add a pinch of sugar and let them fry in hot
rendered butter until a golden brown. Sprinkle with pulverized sugar
and cinnamon and serve hot with coffee.

8.--Bombay Broiled Kidney.

Clean sheep's kidneys and cut into thin slices. Sprinkle with salt,
cayenne pepper and grated lemon peel. Then dip in beaten egg and fine
bread-crumbs and broil on a hot greased gridiron. Serve on buttered
toast, spread with curry paste.

9.--German Prune Kuchen.

Boil some prunes until tender. Remove the kernels and mash the prunes
well. Mix with sugar, cinnamon and lemon-juice to taste. Make a rich
biscuit dough, roll out and place on a well-buttered baking-pan. Fill
with the prunes and let bake until done. Serve cold.

10.--French Roast with Carrots.

Lard a round of beef with slices of bacon and put in a large saucepan.
Cover and let brown a few minutes. Add sliced onion and boiling water
to cover. Let cook slowly until tender; 
then scrape 6 carrots and cut
thin; add 2 sliced onions, 2 cloves of garlic and let cook until
tender. Thicken with butter and flour. Season highly with salt, pepper
and parsley; add to the meat, and let all cook together a half hour
and serve hot.

11.--Spanish Fried Chicken.

Cut a fat hen into pieces at the joints and boil until tender; season
and fry with 1 onion and 2 green peppers chopped fine. Add 1 cup of
tomato-sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Serve the chicken on a platter
with boiled rice.

12.--Hungarian Bread Pudding.

Chop 1/2 cup of suet. Mix with 1/2 loaf of stale bread that has been
soaked and pressed dry. Add 1 cup of chopped apples, 1 cup of sugar,
1/2 cup of chopped raisins and nuts. Sprinkle with cinnamon, nutmeg
and grated lemon peel; then mix with the yolks of 4 eggs and the
whites beaten stiff. Put in a well-buttered pudding-dish, and let bake
until done. Serve hot with wine sauce.

13.--Swedish Baked Turnips.

Peel small tender turnips; heat 1 tablespoonful of butter in a
saucepan. Place the turnips in whole, sprinkle with salt and pepper;
add a tablespoonful of sugar. Pour over a cup of water; cover and let
cook for one hour until tender but not broken. Thicken the sauce with
flour and milk. Add a little water and set in the oven a half hour,
covered with paper; then serve.

14.--Belgian Baked Bananas.

Skin fine bananas and lay them whole in a baking-dish. Sprinkle with
sugar and grated lemon peel. Add the juice of 1 orange, 1/2 lemon and
1/2 glass of sherry wine. Let bake in a quick oven. Put the bananas in
a glass dish and pour over the sauce. Let get cold and serve.

15.--Japanese Rice.

Boil 1 cup of rice; add 3 chopped shallots, 1 teaspoonful of soy and
salt to taste. Place on a platter, cover with chopped hard-boiled
eggs, sprinkle with salt, paprica and chopped parsley. Garnish with
some thin slices of smoked salmon.

16.--Scotch Loaf Cake.

Mix 1/2 pound of butter with 1/4 pound of sugar, 1/2 cup of chopped
nuts and 1/2 cup of shredded citron; then work in 1 pound of sifted
flou
r with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Make a loaf a half inch
thick and bake in a moderate oven until done.

17.--English Meat Loaf.

Chop cooked veal and boiled ham; place in a well-greased mold
alternate layers of veal, ham and hard-boiled eggs. Sprinkle with
pepper, mace and chopped parsley. Moisten with beef-stock and let bake
in the oven. Serve cold, sliced very thin, garnished with watercress.

18.--Jewish Purim Cakes.

Beat 1 cup of sugar with 1/2 cup of butter to a cream; add 2 beaten
eggs, a pinch of salt, 1/2 cup of milk and the grated peel of 1/2
lemon. Add enough sifted flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder to
make a soft biscuit dough. Put on a well-floured baking-board. Roll
out a half inch thick. Cut into triangles and drop in a kettle of hot
rendered butter; fry until a golden brown. Then mix some powdered
sugar with a little milk and flavor with vanilla. Spread on the top.

19.--Swiss Pie.

Make a rich pie-dough. Line a buttered pie-dish with the dough; then
slice three onions very thin and let cook in hot butter until tender;
add a pinch of salt. Fill the pie with the onions, cover the top with
cream and let bake in a moderate oven until done. Serve hot or cold.

20.--French Apple Fritters.

Peel and slice large apples; sprinkle with sugar and lemon-juice and
make a rich egg batter. Sweeten to taste and flavor with 2
tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water. Lay the sliced apples in the
batter and fry in deep hot lard to a golden brown. Serve with
wine sauce.

21.--Jewish Purim Torte.

Line a well-buttered baking-dish with a rich pie-paste. Then mix 1 cup
of fine poppy-seeds with the yolks of 5 eggs and 1/2 cup of sugar,
some chopped raisins and nuts and the juice of 1/2 lemon. Add the
whites beaten stiff; then fill with the mixture and let bake
until done.

22.--English Boiled Pudding.

Mix 1/2 pound of butter with 1/2 pound of powdered sugar to a cream.
Add the yolks of 6 eggs beaten, 1/2 cup of seeded raisins and some
chopped citron, a pinch of nutmeg and cinnamon. Mix in 1/2 pound of
sift
ed flour and 1/2 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Add the whites,
beaten to a stiff froth; put in a buttered pudding-mold, and let boil
until done. Serve with brandy sauce.

23.--German Stewed Brains.

Clean the brains. Heat 1 tablespoonful of drippings in a pan; add the
brains, 1 sliced onion, some parsley, salt and pepper. Let stew
fifteen minutes. Thicken the sauce with butter and flour; let boil up.
Serve hot with spinach and sprinkle all with chopped hard-boiled eggs.

24.--Scotch Cream Muffins.

Sift 1 pint of flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder; beat three
yolks of eggs with a pinch of salt; add 1 pint of cream and 1
tablespoonful of melted butter. Stir in the flour; add the whites
beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all well together. Fill the muffin-rings
1/2 full and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes.

25.--French Tart.

Make a rich pie-dough. Line a large pie-dish with the paste and bake.
Take 3 ounces of almonds and pound to a paste; add 3 tablespoonfuls of
pulverized sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1/2 teaspoonful
of cinnamon and the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten with 1 tablespoonful
of rum. Add the beaten whites; fill the pie and bake in a moderate
oven. Then make a glace. Mix 1 ounce of granulated sugar with 1
tablespoonful of cold water and let come to a boil. Put on the pie
when cool and serve.

26.--Polish Stewed Beans.

Break string-beans into pieces and let boil in salted water until
tender; then heat 1 tablespoonful of butter; stir in 1 tablespoonful
of flour until brown. Add the water in which the beans were cooked,
1/2 cup of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar, some cinnamon and
cloves to taste. Let sauce boil. Add the beans and simmer ten minutes.
Serve hot with a beef pot roast.

27.--Vienna Milk Rolls.

Sift 1-1/2 quarts of flour; add 1/2 teaspoonful of salt; work in a
large tablespoonful of butter; then stir in 1/2 cup of milk with a
piece of yeast dissolved in the milk and a teaspoonful of sugar. Beat
all up well with 1 pint of milk; let raise over night. Roll out an
in
ch thick; cut with a biscuit-cutter; rub with melted butter; lay in
a buttered baking-pan; let raise one hour; then bake in a hot oven
twenty minutes.

28.--Scotch Potato Stew.

Cut the potatoes into small dice pieces and fry in hot lard. Then fry
1 onion cut fine in hot butter, but do not brown; stir in some flour;
then add milk, salt, pepper and parsley. Let boil up once and add the
potatoes to the sauce. Let all get very hot and serve.

29.--Jewish Dumplings.

Soak 6 crackers in water; then press dry. Fry 1 chopped onion in
butter and pour over the crackers. Add 3 eggs and chopped parsley;
sprinkle with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Mix all with some cracker-meal
until you can form into balls and boil in salted water until done.
Serve hot with melted butter poured over them, and garnish
with parsley.

30.--Italian Soup.

Chop some cabbage and let fry in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add 1/2
cup of rice (dry) and 1 clove of garlic chopped with 1/2 small onion.
Let fry a few minutes; then add 2 quarts of soup-stock seasoned with
salt, white pepper and a little saffron to taste. Add 1/2 cup of
grated Parmesan cheese; let all cook until done. Serve with
toasted croutons.

_MAY._

1.--Turkish Puree.

Boil 1 cup of lentils with 1 bay-leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley, a pinch of
salt and pepper to taste; add some mace and cook until tender. Then
fry 1 chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil; add the lentils
and 1 cup of cooked rice and 1 tablespoonful of butter. Stir well
together and let get very hot. Put on a platter and pour over a highly
seasoned tomato-sauce and serve. Garnish with fried parsley.

2.--Jewish Kugel.

Soak 1/2 loaf of bread in water; then press it dry. Heat 1/2 cup of
butter and mix with the bread; add 2 chopped apples, 1/2 cup of
raisins, 1/2 cup of pounded almonds and the grated peel of a lemon.
Add the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites beaten to a stiff froth; mix
well together. Put in a buttered pudding-dish and pour over 1/2 cup of
melted butter; let bake in a moderate oven until brown. Serve hot.

3.-
-English Muffins.

Take 1 quart of warm milk, 1/2 cup of yeast, 1 teaspoonful of salt and
flour enough to make a stiff batter; let stand to raise until light.
Then add 1/2 cup of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in
a little water; add enough flour to make a very stiff batter and let
raise half an hour. Then fill well-greased muffin-rings half full with
the batter and bake in a quick oven until done. Serve with butter.

4.--Spanish Roast Veal.

Season a 6-pound veal-roast with salt and pepper and rub well with
butter; put in the dripping-pan with one large sliced onion, 1
bay-leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley and 2 of thyme and sage. Add 1/2
teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice and mace. Pour in 1 cup of hot
water and the juice of a lemon and dredge with flour; add a
tablespoonful of butter. Let bake until brown and tender. Baste often
with the sauce and serve.

5.--Madras Stewed Chicken.

Cut a spring chicken into pieces at the joints; season with salt and
pepper and fry in hot lard with some tender mutton chops. Fry 1 sliced
onion in hot butter with 2 ounces of rice, 1 teaspoonful of
curry-powder and 1 chopped apple; add to the chicken. Moisten with 1
quart of chicken broth, season to taste and let simmer until the
chicken and mutton are very tender; then add 1 pint of hot oysters and
the juice of 1/2 lemon. Let all get very hot and serve on a platter
with fried egg-plant.

6.--Irish Beef Rolls.

Chop some fat beef with 1 onion and 2 sprigs of parsley. Season with
salt, pepper, nutmeg and a little mace to taste and the grated rind of
1/2 lemon, 1 beaten egg and 1/2 cup of fine bread-crumbs. Mix all well
together and shape into rolls. Then heat some dripping in a saucepan;
lay in the rolls; cover and let simmer until brown. Serve hot with
the sauce.

7.--Norwegian Fruit Pudding.

Boil 1 pint of raspberries and 1 pint of red currants in 2 cups of
water until soft; add 3 cups of sugar, some cinnamon, 1 cup of pounded
almonds and 1 tablespoonful of chopped citron. Let cook and mash until
smooth; then thicken w
ith a little cornstarch. Remove from the fire
and pour into a mold. When cold, serve with whipped cream.

8.--Spanish Puffs.

Put a large cupful of water in a saucepan; add 2 ounces of butter, 1/4
teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of pulverized sugar. While
boiling, stir in sifted flour until stiff and smooth. Remove from the
stove and stir in the yolks of 4 eggs, one at a time, and the beaten
whites; then fry by the teaspoonful in boiling lard until browned.
Serve with a caramel sauce.

9.--Belgian Veal Scallop.

Chop cooked veal to a fine mince; butter a baking-dish and put
alternate layers of veal, rice and tomato-sauce until dish is full.
Cover over with fine bread-crumbs; pour over some melted butter and
let bake in the oven until brown. Serve with French peas.

10.--Parisian Chicken.

Clean and season 2 spring chickens. Put them in a saucepan with 3
tablespoonfuls of butter; cover and let simmer until brown. Add 1/2
can of mushrooms, chopped parsley, and 1 glass of wine; let all cook
until done. Put on a platter and pour over 1 cup of hot cream. Serve,
garnished with croutons.

11.--German Boiled Noodles.

Make a stiff noodle-dough; roll out very thin and cut into ribbons
half an inch wide. Let them dry and boil in salted water; drain in a
colander. Fry some sliced onions in butter until soft; add the
noodles. Stir and serve hot with stewed chicken.

12.--Dutch Baked Fish.

Clean and split a fish open down the back; remove the backbone;
sprinkle with salt and pepper; put in a baking-dish, flesh side up.
Put flakes of butter on top; sprinkle with a little flour; moisten
with cream. Bake in a hot oven until brown. Pour over a Hollandaise
sauce and serve hot.

13.--Vienna Cheese Torte.

Mix 1 cup of cottage cheese with 1 tablespoonful of cream, 1
tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of
sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a pinch of salt and cinnamon. Mix all
together with the whites beaten stiff; then line muffin-rings with a
rich pastry-dough; fill with the cheese and bake in a m
oderate oven
until brown.

14.--Hungarian Fried Noodles.

Beat 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of water; add a pinch of salt and
enough flour to make a stiff dough work well. Then roll out as thin as
paper; fold the dough and cut into round pieces; fry in deep hot lard
to a golden brown. Serve hot with stewed chicken.

15.--Belgian Roast Lamb.

Season 4 pounds of lamb with salt, pepper and lemon-juice; put in the
dripping-pan with 2 small chopped onions, 1 bay-leaf, 2 sprigs of
parsley and thyme; then pour over 1/2 cup of butter and dredge with
flour. Add a cup of hot water and the juice of a lemon. Let bake in a
hot oven until done. Serve with French peas.

16.--Russian Salad.

Chop 1/2 pound of cold roast veal with 1/4 pound of smoked salmon, 3
sour pickles, 2 sour apples, 1 large onion, some beans and capers and
3 hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. Add some chopped nuts. Season and
pour over a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with sliced beets and olives;
serve cold.

17.--French Rolls.

Prepare the dough as for bread. Work in 1/4 pound of butter and 1/4
pound of sugar. Add 4 beaten eggs; form into rolls; put in a
well-buttered baking-pan; let them raise half an hour. Brush the tops
with beaten egg and let bake until done.

18.--German Herring Salad.

Soak herrings over night in cold water; remove the milch; cut off the
head and skin and cut the herring into small pieces; add 2 apples, 2
pickles, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 onion, a few olives, all cut fine. Put
into bowl; mash the milch with a little mustard, 1 teaspoonful of
sugar, pepper and salt. Add 1/4 cupful of vinegar and mix all well
together. Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve with boiled potatoes.

19.--Belgian Fried Calf's Feet.

Clean and boil the calf's feet until tender; season with salt and
pepper. Remove the large bones from the feet; beat 2 eggs with salt
and pepper; dip the feet in the beaten eggs; then roll in fine
bread-crumbs and fry in deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot with
tomato-sauce.

20.--Italian Ice Cream.

Whip 1 quart of cream with 2 cupfuls
 of sugar until stiff. Put in the
freezer until half frozen; then add the juice and grated peel of 2
lemons, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine brandy, and a little pistache
coloring. Let freeze until hard and serve with cake.

21.--French Chocolate Biscuits.

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 10 ounces of powered sugar; add 1 ounce
of powdered French chocolate. Mix well with 4 ounces of flour and the
whites beaten stiff with a pinch of salt; add 1 tablespoonful of
vanilla extract. Bake on wafer sheets in small cakes to a light brown.

22.--India Canapes.

Cut slices of bread into delicate circles and toast in butter; then
take 1 ounce of chutney and 2 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; spread
the toast with ham and the chutney and sprinkle with grated cheese.
Set in the oven a few minutes and serve hot, garnished with
fried parsley.

23.--Chicken a la Tartare.

Season and stew 2 spring chickens with 1 onion, some capers, parsley,
1 bay-leaf and 2 sprigs of thyme chopped fine until tender. Remove the
chickens; add 1 tablespoonful of minced pickles, 1 teaspoonful of made
mustard, 1 teaspoonful of tarragon and 1/2 cup of mayonnaise sauce.
Let boil up and pour over the chickens. Serve with boiled rice.

24.--Jewish Pudding.

Soak 6 matzoth crackers in water; press dry and mix with 1
tablespoonful of butter, a pinch of salt, the yolks of 5 eggs, a small
cup of sugar, some cinnamon, 1/2 cup of raisins and a little grated
lemon peel. Add the beaten whites and bake until brown. Serve with
wine sauce.

25.--German Potato Pancakes.

Peel 3 large potatoes and lay in salted water half an hour; then grate
the potatoes; add pepper, salt, 3 eggs and a large spoonful of flour.
Beat well together and fry in hot lard by the tablespoonful until
light brown. Serve hot with a pot roast.

26.--English Roast Veal.

Season a veal loin roast with salt and pepper and rub with butter. Put
in the dripping-pan with sliced onions, tomatoes and parsley and 2
tablespoonfuls of dripping. Let roast; baste often until tender. Serve
hot or cold, cut into thin sl
ices.

27.--Russian Rice Pudding.

Mix cold boiled rice with the juice and rind of a lemon, 1 cup of
sugar and 1/2 glass of fine rum; then press into a mold. Let get very
cold and serve with cold cooked fruit.

28.--Scotch Pudding.

Take 2 quart of black cherries; remove the stones and mix with 1/2
pound of fine bread-crumbs, some chopped nuts, the beaten yolks of 4
eggs and 1/2 cup of sugar. Add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a
well-buttered pudding-dish and serve cold.

29.--Italian Potato Balls.

Peel and boil potatoes in salted water until soft; drain, and mash
smooth. Take a pint of the mashed potatoes; mix with 2 tablespoonfuls
of melted butter and 1 egg; add a little flour, and form into balls.
Put them into a well-buttered baking-pan; sprinkle with grated
Parmesan cheese and bake in a quick oven to a golden brown. Serve with
stewed chicken.

30.--Belgian Veal Cutlets.

Season veal cutlets; dip in beaten egg and roll in fine bread-crumbs.
Fry in deep hot lard; keep hot. Chop a few onions with a clove of
garlic and fry in a tablespoonful of butter. Stir in 1 tablespoonful
of flour until brown; add a little water and the juice of a lemon,
salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste. Let boil well; then remove from the
fire; stir in the yolks of 2 eggs, and let get very hot; pour over the
chops. Serve with French peas.

31.--French Lemon Cookies.

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs; add 1 cup of butter and 3 cups of sugar
beaten. Add the whites beaten stiff and a teaspoonful of lemon
extract. Add enough flour with a teaspoonful of baking-powder to make
a stiff dough. Roll out thin; cut into small cookies and bake in a
quick oven to a light brown.

_JUNE._

1.--Italian Stuffed Tomatoes.

Cut tomatoes in halves; take out some of the pulp. Fry 1 large onion
in butter, add the tomato pulp, a piece of beef-marrow, 2 sprigs of
chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Remove from the fire; add a beaten
egg and mix with bread-crumbs and a pinch of nutmeg. Then fill the
tomatoes, sprinkle with buttered bread-crumbs and bake until done.
Serve o
n a platter with poached eggs. Garnish with croutons.

2.--English Salad.

Pick, wash and drain 2 heads of lettuce and break into pieces. Mix
with some watercress, shredded celery and a few leaves of mint. Put in
a salad bowl, sprinkle with salt, pepper, sugar and lemon-juice and
pour over a salad-dressing. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs
and pickled beet-root.

3.--Scotch Stuffed Eggs.

Boil eggs until hard; remove the shells. Cut out the centres
lengthwise; then chop cooked chicken to a fine mince; add the yolk of
a raw egg and mix with cream. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Fill the eggs and dip them in beaten eggs and fine bread-crumbs and
fry a light brown. Serve hot with cream sauce. Garnish with parsley.

4.--Oriental Vegetable Curry.

Peel and fry some small onions. Add 2 stalks of celery, cut into inch
pieces; sprinkle with salt, pepper and curry-powder; add a few
truffles and pour over all 1 cup of stock. Let stew until tender. Then
boil some potatoes; mash smooth with butter and season with curry
sauce. Place a border of mashed potatoes on a platter and put the stew
in the centre; serve hot. Garnish with fried parsley.

5.--Chinese Noodle Soup.

Boil a large hen in 3 quarts of water. Add a few slices of ham, 1
onion sliced, some sliced mushrooms, 2 stalks of celery cut fine, 2
tomatoes and Chinese chopped herbs. Let cook three hours and strain;
then boil up; add fine noodles and let cook ten minutes. Add chopped
parsley and serve at once.

6.--Hindu Eggs.

Slice some hard-boiled eggs and place in a well-buttered baking-dish.
Cover with well-beaten raw eggs; sprinkle with salt, pepper, cayenne
and curry-powder, a few bits of butter rolled in bread-crumbs and some
grated cheese. Let bake in a moderate oven until done.

7.--Portugal Veal Stew.

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil in a stew-pan; add 2 sliced onions,
a clove of garlic and a few capers. Let fry a few minutes. Stir in 1
tablespoonful of flour until brown; add 1/2 cup of stock; season with
salt, pepper, cinnamon, cloves and a pinc
h of saffron. Add 1 cup of
white wine; let boil; then add cooked veal sliced thin. Let cook ten
minutes in the sauce and serve very hot.

8.--Italian Coffee Cream.

Mix 1-1/2 cups of strong coffee with 1/2 cup of rich milk in a double
boiler; add 1/2 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of gelatin and a pinch
of salt. Then stir in the yolks of 3 eggs beaten with 1/2 cup of sugar
until it thickens. Remove from the fire; add the whites beaten to a
froth and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Pack in a mold and freeze until
hard and serve with whipped cream.

9.--Scotch Rarebit.

Cut 1/2 pound of cheese in very small pieces and add 1 ounce of fresh
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of
prepared mustard, salt and pepper and a pinch of cayenne to taste. Mix
well together to a smooth paste. Have ready some buttered toast; place
on a dish, spread with the mixture and set in the oven until melted.
Serve at once.

10.--Irish Ham Omelet.

Beat 6 yolks of eggs with a pinch of salt; add the whites beaten stiff
and mix with a tablespoonful of cream. Beat 2 ounces of butter in an
omelet pan; add the beaten eggs and shake the pan to spread evenly.
Have ready some finely minced ham. Spread on half of the omelet, fold
and serve at once on a hot dish.

11.--Jewish Stewed Tongue.

Boil a calf's tongue in salted water until tender; skin and slice
thin. Then heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add 1 chopped onion; stir
in 1 tablespoonful of flour until brown; add 2 cups of the water in
which the tongue was cooked, 1/4 cup of seeded raisins, a few cloves,
1 bay-leaf, 1/4 cup of vinegar, and 1/2 teaspoonful of paprica. Let
all boil well; then add the sliced tongue. Let simmer ten minutes.
Serve hot or cold.

12.--French Prune Souffle.

Cook 1/2 pound of prunes until soft; remove the stones and cut the
prunes into small pieces. Mix with some chopped nuts and the yolks of
3 eggs well beaten with 3 tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar. Add 1
teaspoonful of vanilla and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Put in
a pudding-dish and bak
e in a moderate oven for ten minutes and serve.

13.--Italian Cooked Eggs.

Take 6 hard-boiled eggs and cut lengthwise. Put in a pan with 12
anchovies, some onion juice and 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped
parsley. Season with salt, white pepper and a little nutmeg, grated.
Then pour over all 1/2 pint of sour cream. Let boil up once and serve
hot with croutons.

14.--Spanish Broiled Steak.

Season a porter-house steak with salt and pepper and rub with butter.
Place on a hot gridiron and let broil on a quick fire on both sides.
Make this sauce: Chop 1 onion and brown in 1 tablespoonful of butter;
add 1/2 cup of stock and 1/2 cup of claret; let boil well. Season and
thicken the sauce with a little flour and some chopped parsley. Let
boil up and serve at once with the steak.

15.--Liver a la Bourgogne.

Season a calf's liver with salt and pepper; put a few slices of bacon
in a saucepan; let get very hot. Add the liver, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 2
bay-leaves and 2 sprigs of thyme minced fine; cover and let brown a
few minutes. Then add 1 glass of sherry wine, salt and pepper and
sprinkle with flour. Let simmer ten minutes. Serve hot with potatoes.

16.--Messina Macaroni.

Boil some macaroni in salted water until tender. Then fry 1 onion and
2 cloves of garlic chopped in olive-oil. Add 1 cup of tomato-sauce,
salt and pepper to taste. Then add the macaroni, and let fry
altogether. Serve hot with baked chicken.

17.--Dutch Prune Pudding.

Boil prunes until very soft; remove the stones. Mash well; add the
yolks of 4 beaten eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 cup of
bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 1/2 cup of chopped nuts, and
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Put in a well-buttered
pudding-dish and bake in a moderate oven until done. Serve cold.

18.--Irish Beef Stew.

Season a piece of fat beef; put in a stew-pan with some hot water. Let
cook slowly a half hour. Then add 3 potatoes, cut in dice pieces, and
1 onion, sliced. Let cook slowly until tender. Add 1/2 cup of corn and
1 cup of tomatoes; season with salt and p
epper. Let all cook until
done. Serve hot.

19.--English Creamed Asparagus.

Cut tough ends from the asparagus; scrape and boil in salted water
until tender. Make a cream sauce. When done, stir in the yolk of an
egg; season with a little white pepper. The sauce must be rather thick
and poured hot over the asparagus. Serve with veal chops.

20.--French Float.

Line a glass dish with stale sponge-cake. Sprinkle with wine. Make a
boiled custard. Use 4 yolks of eggs and flavor with rose-water. Beat
the whites with pulverized sugar and flavor to taste. Pour the custard
over the cake and place the stiffly beaten whites on top. Put on the
ice and serve very cold.

21.--Russian Pot Roast.

Season a round of beef with salt, pepper, cloves and nutmeg. Put in a
saucepan on hot dripping. Peel 6 small onions and slice 2 carrots and
2 cloves of garlic. Add to the meat with 1 herb bouquet. Cover with 1
cup of hot water and let cook slowly until tender; then add 1/2 can of
chopped mushrooms, 1 glass of claret, salt and pepper to taste. Serve
hot on a border of mashed potatoes.

22.--Spanish Salad.

Take 1/2 pound of chopped chicken, 1/4 pound of almonds, 1 red pepper,
1 Spanish onion and 1 head of chicory chopped fine. Mix in a salad
bowl with 1/4 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of curry-powder, 2
tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 4 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil.
Garnish with sliced beets and bananas.

23.--Scotch Baked Potatoes.

Peel and slice 6 raw potatoes very thin; then beat 1 egg with 1
tablespoonful of butter. Put the potatoes into a shallow baking-dish,
sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Add enough milk to cover the
potatoes; add the beaten egg. Sprinkle 1/2 cup of grated cheese over
all and let bake until done.

24.--German Apple Cake.

Make a biscuit dough; roll out very thin and put on a well-buttered
cake-pan. Have ready some apples. Cut in quarters; lay closely on the
cake; sprinkle thick with brown sugar; add some cinnamon and a handful
of currants. Pour some fresh melted butter over the cake; set in the
oven 
to bake until done. Serve with coffee.

25.--English Ham Sandwiches.

Cut thin slices of fresh bread. Chop ham with the yolks of 2
hard-boiled eggs; add some made mustard and fresh butter and a dash of
pepper. Mix all well and spread between the slices of bread. Serve on
a folded napkin and garnish with sprigs of parsley.

26.--Swiss Peach Custard.

Line a well-buttered pudding-dish with slices of sponge-cake and cover
with peach compote. Make an egg custard and cover with the custard;
set in the oven to bake. Beat the whites of 2 eggs with a little
lemon-juice and pulverized sugar spread on the top and let brown.
Serve cold.

27.--French Veal Hash.

Cut veal round-steak into small pieces. Then fry some chopped bacon, 1
onion and 2 cloves of garlic chopped; add the meat; stir well and let
all fry a few minutes. Add 1 cup of boiling water and let cook slowly
with some parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, until tender. Add a
tablespoonful of vinegar. Let boil up; remove from the fire and stir
in the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Serve hot with toast.

28.--Vienna Potato Salad.

Slice boiled potatoes thin; chop some onion very fine; slice 2
hard-boiled eggs and mix. Sprinkle all with salt and pepper. Then heat
some vinegar. Add a teaspoonful of made mustard and stir with the
beaten yolk of an egg. Mix all together with 1 tablespoonful of hot
butter and chopped parsley. Serve with cold meats.

29.--French Baked Omelet.

Beat 4 yolks of eggs; add 6 soda crackers crushed fine, salt, pepper,
1 teaspoonful of grated onion, 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 cup of
milk. Beat up well; add the whites beaten stiff; put into a
well-buttered baking-dish and let bake in a hot oven. Serve at once.

30.--Italian Batter Cakes.

Beat 3 yolks of eggs with 1 cup of milk, a Salt-spoonful of salt, 1
tablespoonful of olive-oil and 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Mix with 1/2
cup of flour and the beaten whites of the eggs. Fry until light brown.
Serve with cooked fruit.

_JULY._

1.--Portugal Iced Pudding.

Mix 1 quart of vanilla ice-cream with 1 gil
l of wine, 1/4 pound of
Malaga grapes, 2 ounces of candied orange peel, chopped fine, and 1
pint of whipped cream. Then place in the freezer to harden and serve.

2.--English Chicken Salad.

Mix 1 cup of cold chicken cut fine with 1 cup of chopped celery, 1 cup
of cooked chestnuts chopped and 2 green peppers cut fine. Season with
salt and pepper. Put on crisp lettuce leaves in the salad bowl; cover
with a mayonnaise dressing. Serve cold.

3.--Turkish Stewed Lamb.

Season a quarter of a young lamb and cut into pieces. Lay in a large
stew-pan and cover with hot water. Add 1 sliced onion, 2 sliced green
peppers and 2 tomatoes, 1 red pepper and 2 sprigs of parsley. Let stew
slowly until tender. Then fry thin slices of egg-plant and add to the
stew. Serve hot.

4.--Irish Apple Pudding.

Pare and slice apples and lay them in a buttered pie-dish. Sprinkle
with brown sugar; add the juice and rind of 1/2 of a lemon, a pinch of
cinnamon and cloves. Then cover with a rich pie-paste and let bake
until done.

5.--Indian Rice.

Boil 1 cup of rice in chicken broth; add a pinch of curry-powder and
season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil 1/2 teaspoonful of saffron
in 1 cup of the stock; then let all cook slowly until the broth is
entirely absorbed by the rice. Serve very hot.

6.--Hungarian Chicken Soup.

Boil a large chicken in 3 quarts of water; season with salt, sage and
pepper; add 1 onion chopped and cook until tender. Remove the chicken
and chop it fine; then add to the soup with the yolks of 3 well-beaten
eggs; let all get very hot. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve
at once.

7.--Yorkshire Pudding.

Beat 3 eggs with a pinch of salt; add 1 pint of milk and 2/3 of a cup
of flour. Stir until smooth. Then pour into a well-greased pan and
bake until done. Serve with English roast-beef, and pour over
the gravy.

8.--Portugal Salad.

Slice 2 cucumbers, 2 tomatoes, 1 onion and two green peppers. Then
sprinkle with 1 chopped clove of garlic, salt and pepper and cover
with some thin slices of bread. Pour over all a cup of v
inegar and 1/4
cup of olive-oil and serve.

9.--English Chocolate Pudding.

Soak 6 ounces of bread-crumbs in milk and press dry; add 2 ounces of
butter mixed with 3 ounces of sugar and 3 ounces of chocolate; add the
yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, and flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla;
add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a quick oven and
serve at once.

10.--Spanish Canapes.

Prepare circular pieces of buttered toast. Then mix 1 cup of chopped
fish with 3 sweet pickles minced fine, and 2 tablespoonfuls of Madras
chutney; moisten with 2 tablespoonfuls of Hollandaise sauce. Spread
this mixture over 8 pieces of toast; sprinkle with 3 tablespoonfuls of
grated Parmesan cheese. Let bake for five minutes and serve.

11.--French Strawberry Pudding.

Dip enough macaroons in wine to line the pudding-dish; cover with
sweetened strawberries. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with sugar and flavor
with vanilla; pour over the strawberries; put in the oven to bake.
Beat the whites to a stiff froth with some pulverized sugar; put on
top of the pudding and let brown. Serve cold.

12.--Veal Croquettes a la Reine.

Chop cold veal. Mix with some sweetbread and mushrooms chopped. Season
with salt, pepper and lemon-juice. Add a sprig of parsley and a little
onion chopped fine. Mix with a beaten egg and bread-crumbs; sprinkle
with nutmeg. Form into croquettes. Dip in beaten egg and fine
bread-crumbs and fry in deep hot lard. Serve hot with a cream sauce.

13.--German Cheese Pie.

Line a pie-plate with a rich pie-dough. Mix 1 cup of cottage cheese
with 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1/4 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, a pinch of
salt and a few currants. Mix well. Fill the pie. Sprinkle with sugar
and cinnamon and bake until light brown. Serve hot or cold.

14.--Italian Veal Pates.

Chop cooked veal with some onion, parsley, thyme and 1 clove of
garlic; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add some chopped ham,
lemon-juice and 2 eggs. Mix with bread-crumbs and melted butter. Fill
into small pate shells; rub with butter and beaten egg. Place a paper

over the top and let bake in a moderate oven. Serve with tomato-sauce.

15.--Hungarian Noodle Pudding.

Boil finely cut noodles in salted water drain and mix with the yolks
of 5 eggs, 1/2 cup of raisins, sugar, cinnamon, and grated lemon peel
to taste. Add the beaten whites. Line the pudding-dish with a rich
pie-paste. Fill with the noodles and pour over some melted butter.
Bake until brown. Serve hot with lemon sauce.

16.--Polish Stewed Chicken.

Clean a fat hen and cut into pieces at the joints; season and let stew
with 2 sliced onions, 2 carrots and 1 potato, cut into dice pieces.
When nearly done, add 1 cup of sauerkraut, 2 tablespoonfuls of sorrel
and 1/2 cup of wine. Let cook until tender and serve on a platter with
cooked rice.

17.--Madras Curried Apples.

Peel and core 4 sour apples and cut into rings; then sprinkle with
curry-powder and let fry until tender. Add a few thinly cut shallots.
Cover and let simmer until done. Serve on a platter with boiled rice
and pour over a curry sauce.

18.--Irish Batter Cakes.

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs; add a pinch of salt, 1 tablespoonful of
melted butter, 1 small cup of milk and sifted flour enough to make a
smooth batter. Beat well. Add the whites of eggs, beaten stiff and let
fry a golden color; then spread with jam and serve hot.

19.--Spanish Baked Eggs.

Poach eggs as soft as possible. Butter a baking-dish; add a layer of
bread-crumbs and grated cheese. Place the eggs on the crumbs; sprinkle
with salt, pepper, grated cheese and chopped parsley. Cover with
bread-crumbs and pour over some cream sauce. Let bake in a hot oven
until brown on top. Serve with toast.

20.--Scotch Stewed Onions.

Boil 1 dozen small onions and 4 leeks in salted water until tender;
drain. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of
flour until smooth but not brown; then add 1/2 pint of rich milk;
season highly with pepper, and salt to taste. Add the onions; let boil
up and serve.

21.--German Baked Cabbage.

Take a large cabbage; remove the outer leaves and the inside, lea
ving
a frame. Chop all the cabbage from the inside and fry in hot grease
with 1 sliced onion. Remove from the fire. Mix well with bread-crumbs
and 1/2 cup of chopped ham, 2 eggs, salt, black pepper and cayenne.
Refill the cabbage; put on the outside leaves; cover the top with
leaves. Put in a baking-pan; sprinkle with bits of butter and pour in
1/2 cup of water. Let bake until brown. Serve hot.

22.--Dutch Veal Stew.

Season 3 pounds of veal with salt, pepper and lemon-juice. Put a few
slices of bacon in a stew-pan; when hot, add the veal. Cover and let
brown a few minutes; then add 2 carrots and 1 onion sliced thin, some
thyme and mace; pour over 1 cup of hot water. Cover and let cook
slowly until tender. Thicken with flour mixed with 1/2 cup of milk.
Add chopped parsley; season to taste and serve with baked potatoes.

23.--French Baked Apple Dumplings.

Peel and core apples; sprinkle well with sugar. Then mix some cold
boiled rice with 1 egg, a pinch of salt, sugar and cinnamon, flour
enough to make a dough. Cover the apples with the dough; put in a
well-buttered baking-dish with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and bake to
a delicate brown. Serve with whipped cream.

24.--Bavarian Fried Brains.

Clean and boil the brains in salted water; add 1 onion sliced; let
cook ten minutes. Remove the brains and mash up well with 1
tablespoonful of butter, some bread-crumbs and parsley chopped, salt
and pepper to taste; add 2 eggs. Mix together and fry in deep hot lard
by the tablespoonful until brown. Serve with tomato-sauce.

25.--Polish Bread Pudding.

Soak 1 pint of bread in a quart of milk; add the yolks of 4 eggs, 1
cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1/2 cup of raisins,
1/2 cup of currants, the juice of 1/2 lemon. Mix well and bake until
brown; then beat the whites to a stiff froth with 3 tablespoonfuls of
pulverized sugar. Spread the pudding with jelly and cover with the
beaten whites; set in the oven to brown.

26.--Vienna Cherry Cake.

Make a rich biscuit dough; roll out; then put on a well-buttered
bakin
g-tin. Stone black cherries. Sprinkle the dough with flour and
cover with the cherries. Sprinkle with sugar and let bake until done.
Then cover with a sweetened egg custard and bake until brown.
Serve cold.

27.--Belgian Poached Eggs.

Cut thin round slices of bread and toast them. Spread with chopped
anchovies and chopped ham. Cover the top with whipped whites of eggs
and place a raw yoke on each slice of bread. Set in the oven to bake
long enough to heat the egg, and serve at once.

28.--Bavarian Apple Pie.

Line a deep pie-dish with rich pie-paste. Let bake and fill with
chopped apples, raisins and chopped nuts, sugar and a pinch of
cinnamon and nutmeg. Then cover with cake-crumbs and let bake until
done. Beat 3 whites of eggs with pulverized sugar; flavor with lemon
and spread over the pudding. Set in the oven a few minutes to brown
on top.

29.--Russian Fried Sweetbreads.

Clean and season the sweetbreads with salt and pepper and sprinkle
with lemon-juice and chopped parsley. Roll in fine bread-crumbs and
fry in hot lard. Fry some eggs and put on a platter with the
sweetbreads and serve with tomato-sauce.

30.--Polish Apple Dumpling.

Peel and core the apples and fill the space with currants. Sprinkle
with sugar, cinnamon and grated lemon peel, and cover each apple with
a rich pie-paste. Lay on a well-buttered pie-dish and let bake until
done. Serve with wine sauce.

31.--Swiss Potato Dumpling.

Boil 6 potatoes, then grate them. Mix with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour
and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 3 eggs. Make into a soft dough;
roll out and then spread with fried bread-crumbs. Make into round
dumplings and let boil twenty minutes. Serve hot with melted butter
poured over.

_AUGUST._

1.--German Pot Roast.

Take a 5-pound beef roast. Rub with salt and black pepper and paprica;
pour over some boiling vinegar; add 2 bay-leaves, a few peppercorns
and cloves. Let stand over night. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping in
a saucepan; lay in the meat with 2 sliced onions. Let stew slowly with
one cup of water and 1/2 
cup of the spiced vinegar until tender.
Thicken the sauce with flour and serve hot with potato pancakes.

2.--Scotch Soup.

Cut a sheep's liver into pieces and stew with the sheep's head in 4
quarts of water. Add sliced onions, sliced leeks, carrots, turnips,
parsley and thyme, salt, pepper and a few cloves. Let all cook until
tender; then strain. Let stand until cool. Skim off the fat; heat and
mix with flour until brown; let boil. Add a glass of white wine. Cook
all together and serve hot.

3.--Spanish Fried Potatoes.

Peel some new potatoes and cook until tender. Mix some fine
bread-crumbs with grated Parmesan cheese and chopped parsley. Beat 2
eggs with salt and pepper; dip each potato in beaten egg and roll in
the bread-crumbs. Fry in deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot.

4.--French Frozen Milk Punch.

Sweeten 1 quart of milk with 2 cupfuls of sugar; let come to a boil.
Remove from the fire and grate in 1/2 nutmeg. When cool, freeze until
half frozen; then stir in 3 cupfuls of whipped cream and freeze again.
Add 1/2 cup of rum and 1 cupful of French brandy. Let freeze until
hard and serve.

5.--Bavarian Fruit Compote.

Cook 2 cups of water with 1 cup of wine. Add 1 cup of sugar and a
pinch of cinnamon and some strawberries, cherries and blackberries.
Let simmer in the juice until fruit is done. Put in a glass dish and
pour over the syrup. Serve cold.

6.--Vienna Rice Custard.

Boil 1/2 cup of rice in 1 quart of milk; add salt to taste; boil until
very soft. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar and
stir in the rice. Flavor with rose-water and put in a well-buttered
pudding-dish. Beat the whites with pulverized sugar to a stiff froth;
spread on the custard and let bake in the oven until done. Serve cold.

7.--French Fried Cucumbers.

Peel the cucumbers and cut into inch slices. Sprinkle with salt and
pepper and dip in beaten eggs and fine bread-crumbs. Season with salt
and pepper and fry in hot lard until brown. Serve with tomato-sauce
and veal chops.

8.--German Cherry Soup.

Boil 1 quart 
of cherries until soft; sweeten to taste. Add some grated
lemon peel, some cinnamon, 1 bottle of red wine and 2 bottles of
water. Serve ice-cold with macaroons.

9.--Swiss Pancakes.

Peel and grate 4 raw potatoes; mix with 1 ounce of butter, 1 ounce of
bread-crumbs, 1/4 pint of milk, 1 large tablespoonful of Swiss cheese,
the yolks of three eggs and the whites beaten stiff. Season with salt
and pepper and mix with 1 tablespoonful of flour to a smooth batter;
then fry in hot lard until brown. Serve hot.

10.--English Tarts.

Make a rich puff paste; roll out thin and cut into squares; then fill
with fruit jam; turn over and pinch in the edges. Drop in a kettle of
deep hot lard and fry until a delicate brown. Sprinkle with pulverized
sugar and serve hot.

11.--Norwegian Rice.

Cook rice until tender; then reheat in a well-seasoned chicken stock.
Put on a platter; sprinkle with chopped chicken liver, scrambled eggs
and grated cheese and serve at once.

12.--Spanish Broiled Kidney.

Take a fresh kidney; clean and cut into thin slices; run a skewer
through them to hold them together. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and
brush with butter; put on a broiler and cook for five minutes. Then
place on a platter; pour over some lemon-juice and hot butter;
sprinkle with parsley and serve at once.

13.--Egyptian Stuffed Peppers.

Cut off the tops and remove the seeds from large sweet peppers. Stuff
with chopped raw beef highly seasoned, and mix with chopped onion,
parsley, tomato, a beaten egg and 2 tablespoonfuls of chutney. Put the
stuffed peppers in a baking-pan with a little hot water; sprinkle with
bits of butter and let bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve. Garnish
with cucumber salad.

14.--English Tea Cakes.

Beat 1/4 pound of butter with 1/4 pound of sugar to a cream. Add 1 egg
and 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and mace. Mix with 6 ounces of
sifted flour, a pinch of salt and milk enough to make a stiff dough;
then roll out very thin. Cut into round cakes and bake in a quick oven
until done.

15.--Bavarian Cheese Cake.


Make a rich biscuit dough; roll out and place on a well-buttered
pie-dish. Then mix 1/2 pound of cottage cheese with a pinch of salt,
1/4 cup of melted butter, 1/2 cup of sugar, 1/2 lemon grated, 2 yolks
of eggs and 1/2 cup of currants; add the whites beaten stiff. Fill the
pie with the cheese. Serve hot or cold with coffee.

16.--Spanish Chicken.

Cut a spring chicken into pieces at the joints; season with salt and
pepper and fry until brown. Remove the chicken; add 1 onion, 2 cloves
of garlic chopped and 1 cup of tomato-sauce. Cover and let simmer;
then add the chicken with 1 glass of sherry wine. Cook ten minutes.
Serve hot with boiled rice.

17.--Polish Shrimp Salad.

Drain 1 cup of shrimps and 1 can of sardines; cut into small pieces.
Add 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 small onion, a few capers and gherkins
chopped fine and chopped parsley. Mix with 1/4 cup of vinegar. Line
the salad bowl with the crisp lettuce leaves. Add the salad and pour
over a mayonnaise dressing and serve.

18.--Dutch Apple Pudding.

Peel and chop apples; mix with 1/2 cup of nuts, raisins, the juice and
rind of 1/2 lemon and 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Then add the yolks of
4 eggs and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Let bake in a moderate
oven until done. Serve cold.

19.--Bavarian Potatoes.

Peel and cook some new potatoes with 1 sliced onion, salt and pepper,
until tender. Then brown 1 tablespoonful of flour in 2 teaspoonfuls of
butter; add 1/2 cup of water; let boil well with some chopped parsley,
salt and pepper; then add the potatoes and let simmer five minutes.
Serve hot.

20.--Spanish Steak Roll.

Cut thin slices from the round steak; then chop 1 onion, 2 tomatoes,
some celery, parsley and 2 hard-boiled eggs and season with salt and
pepper. Mix with butter and fine bread-crumbs; then spread the mixture
on the steak, and roll up. Sprinkle with flour; lay closely in a pan
of hot dripping; cover and let simmer until tender. Serve hot,
garnished with olives and parsley.

21.--Oriental Cabbage.

Chop a small head of cabbage, then fry 1 oni
<|endoftext|>
This file was produced from images generously made available by the Bibliotheque nationale de France (BnF/Gallica) at http://gallica.bnf.fr., carlo traverso, Charlie Kirschner and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

MY FIRST YEARS AS A
FRENCHWOMAN

[Illustration: Madame Waddington.
From a photograph taken in the year of the Exposition, 1878.]

MY FIRST YEARS AS A
FRENCHWOMAN

1876-1879

BY

MARY KING WADDINGTON

ILLUSTRATED

1914

CONTENTS

 I. WHEN MACMAHON WAS PRESIDENT
 II. IMPRESSIONS OF THE ASSEMBLY AT VERSAILLES
 III. M. WADDINGTON AS MINISTER OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION
 IV. THE SOCIAL SIDE OF A MINISTER'S WIFE
 V. A REPUBLICAN VICTORY AND A NEW MINISTRY
 VI. THE EXPOSITION YEAR
 VII. THE BERLIN CONGRESS
VIII. GAIETIES AT THE QUAI D'ORSAY
 IX. M. WADDINGTON AS PRIME MINISTER
 X. PARLIAMENT BACK IN PARIS
 XI. LAST DAYS AT THE FOREIGN OFFICE

INDEX

ILLUSTRATIONS

MADAME WADDINGTON _Frontispiece
 From a photograph taken in the year of the Exposition_, 1878.

MONSIEUR THIERS

MARSHAL MACMAHON

SITTING OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY AT THE PALACE OF VERSAILLES

THE FOYER OF THE OPERA

MEETING OF OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, AND OF
DELEGATES OF THE NEW CHAMBERS, IN THE SALON OF
HERCULES, PALACE OF VERSAILLES

THEODOR MOMMSEN

PALACE OF THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, PARIS

FRANZ LISZT

WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE

LORD LYONS

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS, EDWARD, PRINCE OF WALES, IN 1876

PRINCE HOHENLOHE

M. WILLIAM WADDINGTON. IN THE UNIFORM HE WORE AS
MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND AT THE BERLIN
CONGRESS, 1878

NASR-ED-DIN, SHAH OF PERSIA

PRINCE BISMARCK

THE BERLIN CONGRESS

M. JULES GREVY, READING MARSHAL MACMAHON'S LETTER
OF RESIGNATION TO THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES

M. JULES GREVY ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC BY
THE SENATE AND CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES MEETING AS
THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY

THE ELYSEE PALACE, PARIS

HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA, ABOUT 1879

M. DE FREYCINET

MME. SADI CARNOT

PRESIDENT SADI CARNOT

MY FIRST YEARS AS A FRENCHWOMAN

I

WHEN MACMAHON WAS PRESIDENT

I was married in Paris in November, 1874, at the 
French Protestant
Chapel of the rue Taitbout, by Monsieur Bersier, one of the ablest and
most eloquent pastors of the Protestant church. We had just established
ourselves in Paris, after having lived seven years in Rome. We had a
vague idea of going back to America, and Paris seemed a first step in
that direction--was nearer New York than Rome. I knew very little of
France--we had never lived there--merely stayed a few weeks in the
spring and autumn, coming and going from Italy. My husband was a deputy,
named to the National Assembly in Bordeaux in 1871, by his
Department--the Aisne. He had some difficulty in getting to Bordeaux.
Communications and transports were not easy, as the Germans were still
in the country, and, what was more important, he hadn't any
money--couldn't correspond with his banker, in Paris--(he was living in
the country). However, a sufficient amount was found in the country, and
he was able to make his journey. When I married, the Assembly was
sitting at Versailles. Monsieur Thiers, the first President of the
Republic, had been overthrown in May, 1873--Marshal MacMahon named in
his place. W.[1] had had a short ministry (public instruction) under
Monsieur Thiers, but he was so convinced that it would not last that he
never even went to the ministry--saw his directors in his own rooms. I
was plunged at once into absolutely new surroundings. W.'s personal
friends were principally Orleanists and the literary element of
Paris--his colleagues at the Institute. The first houses I was taken to
in Paris were the Segurs, Remusats, Lasteyries, Casimir Periers,
Gallieras, d'Haussonville, Leon Say, and some of the Protestant
families--Pourtales, Andre Bartholdi, Mallet, etc. It was such an
entirely different world from any I had been accustomed to that it took
me some time to feel at home in my new milieu. Political feeling was
very strong--all sorts of fresh, young elements coming to the front.
The Franco-German War was just over--the French very sore and bitter
after their defeat. There was a strong un
derlying feeling of violent
animosity to the Emperor, who had lost them two of their fairest
provinces, and a passionate desire for the revanche. The feeling was
very bitter between the two branches of the Royalist party, Legitimists
and Orleanists. One night at a party in the Faubourg St. Germain, I saw
a well-known fashionable woman of the extreme Legitimist party turn her
back on the Comtesse de Paris. The receptions and visits were not always
easy nor pleasant, even though I was a stranger and had no ties with any
former government. I remember one of my first visits to a well-known
Legitimist countess in the Faubourg St. Germain; I went on her reception
day, a thing all young women are most particular about in Paris. I found
her with a circle of ladies sitting around her, none of whom I knew.
They were all very civil, only I was astonished at the way the mistress
of the house mentioned my name every time she spoke to me: "Madame
Waddington, etes-vous allee a l'Opera hier soir," "Madame Waddington,
vous montez a cheval tous les matins, je crois," "Monsieur Waddington va
tous les vendredis a l'Institut, il me semble," etc. I was rather
surprised and said to W. when I got home, "How curious it is, that way
of saying one's name all the time; I suppose it is an old-fashioned
French custom. Madame de B. must have said 'Waddington' twenty times
during my rather short visit." He was much amused. "Don't you know why?
So that all the people might know who you were and not say awful things
about the 'infecte gouvernement' and the Republic, 'which no gentleman
could serve.'"

[Footnote 1: "W.," here and throughout this book, refers to Madame
Waddington's husband, M. William Waddington.]

[Illustration: Monsieur Theirs.]

The position of the German Embassy in Paris was very difficult, and
unfortunately their first ambassador after the war, Count Arnim, didn't
understand (perhaps didn't care to) how difficult it was for a
high-spirited nation, which until then had always ranked as a great
military power, to accept her humi
liation and be just to the victorious
adversary. Arnim was an unfortunate appointment--not at all the man for
such a delicate situation. We had known him in Rome in the old days of
Pio Nono's reign, where he had a great position as Prussian minister to
the Vatican. He and the Countess Arnim received a great deal, and their
beautiful rooms in the Palazzo Caffarelli, on the top of the Capitol
Hill (the two great statues of Castor and Pollux standing by their
horses looking as if they were guarding the entrance) were a brilliant
centre for all the Roman and diplomatic world. He was a thorough man of
the world, could make himself charming when he chose, but he never had a
pleasant manner, was curt, arrogant, with a very strong sense of his own
superiority. From the first moment he came to Paris as ambassador, he
put people's backs up. They never liked him, never trusted him; whenever
he had an unpleasant communication to make, he exaggerated the
unpleasantness, never attenuated, and there is so much in the way things
are said. The French were very hard upon him when he got into trouble,
and certainly his own Government was merciless to him.

One of my first small difficulties after becoming a Frenchwoman was to
eliminate some of my German friends from my salon. I could not run the
risk of their being treated rudely. I remember so well one night at
home, before I was married, seeing two French officers not in uniform
slip quietly out of the room when one of the German Embassy came in, yet
ours was a neutral house. When my engagement was announced one of my
great friends at the German Embassy (Count Arco) said to me: "This is
the end, I suppose, of our friendship; I can never go to see you when
you are the wife of a French deputy." "Oh, yes, you can still come; not
quite so often, perhaps, but I can't give up my friends." However, we
drifted apart without knowing why exactly. It is curious how long that
hostile feeling toward Germany has lasted in France.

Every year there is a great review of the Paris garrison (thirt
y
thousand men) by the President of the Republic, at Longchamp, on the
14th of July, the national fete--the day of the storming of the Bastile.
It is a great day in Paris--one of the sights of the year--and falling
in midsummer the day is generally beautiful and very warm. From early
dawn all the chairs and benches along the Avenue du Bois de Boulogne are
crowded with people waiting patiently for hours to see the show. There
is not a seat to be had at Longchamp. Unless one arrives very early the
tribunes are packed, and the President's box very crowded, as he invites
the diplomatic corps and the ministers and their wives on that day. The
troops are always received with much enthusiasm, particularly the
artillery, dragging their light field-pieces and passing at a
gallop--also the battalion of St. Cyr, the great French military school.
The final charge of the cavalry is very fine. Masses of riders come
thundering over the plain, the general commanding in front, stopping
suddenly as if moved by machinery, just opposite the President's box.
I went very regularly as long as W. was in office, and always enjoyed my
day. There was an excellent buffet in the salon behind the box, and it
was pleasant to have a cup of tea and rest one's eyes while the long
columns of infantry were passing--the regular, continuous movement was
fatiguing. All the ambassadors and foreigners were very keen about the
review, paying great attention to the size of the men and horses and
their general equipment. As long as Marshal MacMahon was President of
the Republic, he always rode home after the review down the
Champs-Elysees--in full uniform, with a brilliant staff of foreign
officers and military attaches. It was a pretty sight and attracted
great attention. Some of the foreign uniforms are very striking and the
French love a military show.

[Illustration: Marshal MacMahon.]

For many years after the war the German military attache returned from
the review unobserved in a _shut_ carriage, couldn't run the risk of an
angry or insulting word f
rom some one in the crowd, and still later,
fifteen years after the war, when W. was ambassador in England, I was
godmother of the daughter of a German-English cousin living in London.
The godfather was Count Herbert Bismarck, son of the famous chancellor.
At the time of the christening I was in France, staying with some
friends in the country. The son of the house had been through the war,
had distinguished himself very much, and they were still very sore over
their reverses and the necessity of submitting to all the little
pin-pricks which came at intervals from Germany. Bismarck sent me a
telegram regretting the absence of the godmother from the ceremony. It
was brought to me just after breakfast, while we were having our coffee.
I opened it and read it out, explaining that it was from Bismarck to
express his regret for my absence. There was a dead silence, and then
the mistress of the house said to me: "C'est tres desagreable pour vous,
chere amie, cette association avec Bismarck."

I didn't see much of W. in the daytime. We usually rode in the morning
in the Bois and immediately after breakfast he started for Versailles in
the parliamentary train. Dinner was always a doubtful meal. Sometimes he
came home very late for nine-o'clock dinner; sometimes he dined at
Versailles and only got home at ten or eleven if the sitting was stormy.
The Hotel des Reservoirs did a flourishing business as long as the
Chambers sat at Versailles. When we were dining out it was very
disagreeable, particularly the first winter when I didn't know many
people. I remember one dinner at the Countess Duchatel's where I went
alone; we were ten women and five men. All the rest were deputies, who
had telegraphed at the last moment they would not come, were kept at
Versailles by an important question.

One of the most interesting things I saw in 1873, just before my
marriage, was the court-martial of Marshal Bazaine for treachery at
Metz--giving up his army and the city without any attempt to break
through the enemy's lines, or in fact any 
resistance of any kind. The
court was held at the Grand Trianon, Versailles, a place so associated
with a pleasure-loving court, and the fanciful devices of a gay young
queen, that it was difficult to realise the drama that was being
enacted, when the honour of a Marshal of France--almost an army of
France, was to be judged. It was an impressive scene, the hall packed,
and people at all the doors and entrances clamouring for seats. The
public was curious, a little of everything--members of the National
Assembly, officers all in uniform, pretty women of all categories--the
group of journalists with keen eager faces watching every change of
expression of the marshal's face--some well-known faces, wives of
members or leading political and literary men, a fair amount of the
frailer sisterhood, actresses and demi-mondaines, making a great effect
of waving plumes and diamonds. The court was presided over by the Duc
d'Aumale, who accepted the office after much hesitation. He was a fine,
soldierly figure as he came in, in full uniform, a group of officers
behind him, all with stern, set faces. The impression of the public was
generally hostile to the marshal; one felt it all through the trial. He
was dressed in full uniform, with the grand cordon of the Legion of
Honour. It was melancholy to hear the report of his career when it was
read by his counsel,--long years of active service, many wounds, often
mentioned for brave conduct under fire, having the "Medaille
Militaire"--the grand cordon of the Legion d'Honneur, the baton de
Marechal de France,--all the honours his country could give him--to end
so miserably, judged not only by the court but by the country, as a
traitor, false to his trust, when his country was in the death-throes of
defeat and humiliation. His attitude at the trial was curious. He sat
very still in his armchair, looking straight before him, only raising
his head and looking at the Duc d'Aumale when some grave accusation was
made against him. His explanation brought the famous reply from the duc,
when
 he said it was impossible to act or to treat; there was nothing
left in France--no government, no orders--nothing. The due answered:
"Il y avait toujours la France." He didn't look overwhelmed, rather like
some one who was detached from the whole proceedings. I saw his face
quite well; it was neither false nor weak--ordinary. It is difficult to
believe that a French general with a brilliant record behind him should
have been guilty of such treachery, sacrificing his men and his honour.
His friends (they were not many) say he lost his head, was nearly crazy
with the utterly unforeseen defeat of the French, but even a moment of
insanity would hardly account for such extraordinary weakness. W. and
some of his friends were discussing it in the train coming home. They
were all convinced of his guilt, had no doubt as to what the sentence of
the court would be--death and degradation--but thought that physical
fatigue and great depression must have caused a general breakdown. The
end every one knows. He was condemned to be shot and degraded. The first
part of the sentence was cancelled on account of his former services,
but he was degraded, imprisoned, escaped, and finished his life in Spain
in poverty and obscurity, deserted by all his friends and his wife. It
was a melancholy rentree for the Duc d'Aumale. His thoughts must have
gone back to the far-off days when the gallant young officer, fils de
France, won his first military glory in Algiers, and thought the world
was at his feet. His brilliant exploit, capturing the Smala of
Abd-el-Kader, has been immortalised by Vernet in the great historical
picture that one sees at Versailles. There are always artists copying
parts of it, particularly one group, where a lovely, fair-haired woman
is falling out of a litter backward. Even now, when one thinks of the
King Louis Philippe, with all his tall, strong, young sons (there is a
well-known picture of the King on horseback with all his sons around
him--splendid specimens of young manhood), it seems incredible that they
are n
ot still ruling and reigning at the Tuileries. I wonder if things
would have been very different if Louis Philippe and his family had not
walked out of the Tuileries that day!

I often asked W. in what way France had gained by being a republic. I
personally was quite impartial, being born an American and never having
lived in France until after the Franco-Prussian War. I had no particular
ties nor traditions, had no grandfather killed on the scaffold, nor
frozen to death in the retreat of "La Grande Armee" from Moscow. They
always told me a republic was in the air--young talents and energy must
come to the front--the people must have a voice in the government. I
think the average Frenchman is intelligent, but I don't think the vote
of the man in the street can have as much value as that of a man who has
had not only a good education but who has been accustomed always to hear
certain principles of law and order held up as rules for the guidance of
his own life as well as other people's. Certainly universal suffrage was
a most unfortunate measure to take from America and apply to France, but
it has been taken and now must stay. I have often heard political men
who deplored and condemned the law say that no minister would dare to
propose a change.

I went often to the Chamber in the spring--used to drive out and bring
W. home. Versailles was very animated and interesting during all that
time, so many people always about. Quite a number of women followed the
debates. One met plenty of people one knew in the streets, at the
Patissiers, or at some of the bric-a-brac shops, where there were still
bargains to be found in very old furniture, prints, and china. There is
a large garrison. There were always officers riding, squads of soldiers
moving about, bugle-calls in all directions, and continuous arrivals at
the station of deputies and journalists hurrying to the palace, their
black portfolios under their arms. The palace was cold. There was a fine
draught at the entrance and the big stone staircase was always cold,
eve
n in June, but the assembly-room was warm enough and always crowded.
It was rather difficult to get seats. People were so interested in those
first debates after the war, when everything had to be reorganised and
so much of the past was being swept away.

II

IMPRESSIONS OF THE ASSEMBLY AT VERSAILLES

The sittings of the assembly were very interesting in that wonderful
year when everything was being discussed. All public interest of course
was centred in Versailles, where the National Assembly was trying to
establish some sort of stable government. There were endless discussions
and speeches and very violent language in the Chambers. Gambetta made
some bitter attacks on the Royalists, accusing them of mauvaise foi and
want of patriotism. The Bonapartist leaders tried to persuade themselves
and their friends that they still had a hold on the country and that a
plebiscite would bring back in triumph their prince. The Legitimists,
hoping against hope that the Comte de Chambord would still be the
saviour of the country, made passionate appeals to the old feeling of
loyalty in the nation, and the centre droit, representing the
Orleanists, nervous, hesitating, knowing the position perfectly,
ardently desiring a constitutional monarchy, but feeling that it was
not possible at that moment, yet unwilling to commit themselves to a
final declaration of the Republic, which would make a Royalist
restoration impossible. All the Left confident, determined.

The Republic was voted on the 30th of January, 1875, by a majority of
one vote, if majority it could be called, but the great step had been
taken, and the struggle began instantly between the moderate
conservative Republicans and the more advanced Left. W. came home late
that day. Some of his friends came in after dinner and the talk was most
interesting. I was so new to it all that most of the names of the rank
and file were unknown to me, and the appreciations of the votes and the
anecdotes and side-lights on the voters said nothing to me. Looking back
after all these year
s, it seems to me that the moderate Royalists
(centre droit) threw away a splendid chance. They could not stop the
Republican wave (nothing could) but they might have controlled it and
directed it instead of standing aloof and throwing the power into the
hands of the Left. We heard the well-known sayings very often those
days: "La Republique sera conservatrice ou elle ne sera pas" and "La
Republique sans Republicains," attributed to M. Thiers and Marshal
MacMahon. The National Assembly struggled on to the end of the year,
making a constitution, a parliament with two houses, senate and chamber
of deputies, with many discussions and contradictions, and hopes and
illusions.

[Illustration: Sitting of the National Assembly at the palace of
Versailles. From _l'Illustration_, March 11, 1876]

I went often to Versailles, driving out when the weather was fine. I
liked the stormy sittings best. Some orator would say something that
displeased the public, and in a moment there would be the greatest
uproar, protestations and accusations from all sides, some of the
extreme Left getting up, gesticulating wildly, and shaking their fists
at the speaker--the Right, generally calm and sarcastic, requesting the
speaker to repeat his monstrous statements--the huissiers dressed in
black with silver chains, walking up and down in front of the tribune,
calling out at intervals: "Silence, messieurs, s'il vous plait,"--the
President ringing his bell violently to call the house to order, and
nobody paying the slightest attention,--the orator sometimes standing
quite still with folded arms waiting until the storm should abate,
sometimes dominating the hall and hurling abuse at his adversaries. W.
was always perfectly quiet; his voice was low, not very strong, and he
could not speak if there were an uproar. When he was interrupted in a
speech he used to stand perfectly still with folded arms, waiting for a
few minutes' silence. The deputies would call out: "Allez! allez!"
interspersed with a few lively criticisms on what he was saying to th
em;
he was perfectly unmoved, merely replied: "I will go on with pleasure as
soon as you will be quiet enough for me to be heard." Frenchmen
generally have such a wonderful facility of speech, and such a pitiless
logic in discussing a question, that the debates were often very
interesting. The public was interesting too. A great many women of all
classes followed the sittings--several Egerias (not generally in their
first youth) of well-known political men sitting prominently in the
President's box, or in the front row of the journalists' box, following
the discussions with great interest and sending down little slips of
paper to their friends below--members' wives and friends who enjoyed
spending an hour or two listening to the speeches--newspaper
correspondents, literary ladies, diplomatists. It was very difficult to
get places, particularly when some well-known orators were announced to
speak upon an important question. We didn't always know beforehand, and
I remember some dull afternoons with one or two members making long
speeches about purely local matters, which didn't interest any one. We
looked down upon an almost empty hall on those occasions. A great many
of the members had gone out and were talking in the lobbies; those who
remained were talking in groups, writing letters, walking about the
hall, quite unconscious apparently of the speaker at the tribune. I
couldn't understand how the man could go on talking to empty benches,
but W. told me he was quite indifferent to the attention of his
colleagues,--his speech was for his electors and would appear the next
day in the _Journal Officiel_. I remember one man talked for hours about
"allumettes chimiques."

Leon Say was a delightful speaker, so easy, always finding exactly the
word he wanted. It hardly seemed a speech when he was at the tribune,
more like a causerie, though he told very plain truths sometimes to the
peuple souverain. He was essentially French, or rather Parisian, knew
everybody, and was au courant of all that went on politically and
soci
ally, and had a certain blague, that eminently French quality which
is very difficult to explain. He was a hard worker, and told me once
that what rested him most after a long day was to go to a small
boulevard theatre or to read a rather lively yellowbacked novel.

I never heard Gambetta speak, which I always regretted--in fact knew
very little of him. He was not a ladies' man, though he had some devoted
women friends, and was always surrounded by a circle of political men
whenever he appeared in public. (In all French parties, immediately
after dinner, the men all congregate together to talk to each
other,--never to the women,--so unless you happen to find yourself
seated next to some well-known man, you never really have a chance of
talking to him.) Gambetta didn't go out much, and as by some curious
chance he was never next to me at dinner, I never had any opportunity of
talking to him. He was not one of W.'s friends, nor an habitue of the
house. His appearance was against him--dark, heavy-looking, with an
enormous head.

When I had had enough of the speeches and the bad atmosphere, I used to
wander about the terraces and gardens. How many beautiful sunsets I have
seen from the top of the terrace or else standing on the three famous
pink marble steps (so well known to all lovers of poetry through Alfred
de Musset's beautiful verses, "Trois Marches Roses"), seeing in
imagination all the brilliant crowd of courtiers and fair women that
used to people those wonderful gardens in the old days of Versailles! I
went sometimes to the "Reservoirs" for a cup of tea, and very often
found other women who had also driven out to get their husbands. We
occasionally brought back friends who preferred the quiet cool drive
through the Park of St. Cloud to the crowd and dust of the railway. The
Count de St. Vallier (who was not yet senator, but deeply interested in
politics) was frequently at Versailles and came back with us often. He
was a charming, easy talker. I never tired of hearing about the
brilliant days of the last Emp
ire, and the fetes at the Tuileries,
Compiegne, and St. Cloud. He had been a great deal at the court of
Napoleon III, had seen many interesting people of all kinds, and had a
wonderful memory. He must have had an inner sense or presentiment of
some kind about the future, for I have heard him say often in speaking
of the old days and the glories of the Empire, when everything seemed so
prosperous and brilliant, that he used often to ask himself if it could
be real--Were the foundations as solid as they seemed! He had been a
diplomatist, was in Germany at the time of the Franco-German War, and
like so many of his colleagues scattered over Germany, was quite aware
of the growing hostile feeling in Germany to France and also of
Bismarck's aims and ambitions. He (like so many others) wrote repeated
letters and warnings to the French Foreign Office, which apparently had
no effect. One heard afterward that several letters of that description
from French diplomatists in Germany were found unopened in a drawer at
the ministry.

It was rather sad, as we drove through the stately alleys of the Park of
St. Cloud, with the setting sun shining through the fine old trees, to
hear of all the fetes that used to take place there,--and one could
quite well fancy the beautiful Empress appearing at the end of one of
the long avenues, followed by a brilliant suite of ladies and
ecuyers,--and the echoes of the cor de chasse in the distance. The
alleys are always there, and fairly well kept, but very few people or
carriages pass. The park is deserted. I don't think the cor de chasse
would awaken an echo or a regret even, so entirely has the Empire and
its glories become a thing of the past. A rendezvous de chasse was a
very pretty sight.

We went once to Compiegne before I was married, about three years before
the war. We went out and breakfasted at Compiegne with a great friend of
ours, M. de St. M., a chamberlain or equerry of the Emperor. We
breakfasted in a funny old-fashioned little hotel (with a very good
cuisine) and drove in a b
ig open break to the forest. There were a great
many people riding, driving, and walking, officers of the garrison in
uniform, members of the hunt in green and gold, and a fair sprinkling of
red coats. The Empress looked charming, dressed always in the uniform of
the hunt, green with gold braid, and a tricorne on her head,--all her
ladies with the same dress, which was very becoming. One of the most
striking-looking of her ladies was the Princess Anna Murat, the present
Duchesse de Mouchy, who looked very handsome in the tricorne and
beautifully fitting habit. I didn't see the Empress on her horse, as we
lost sight of them very soon. She and her ladies arrived on the field in
an open break. I saw the Emperor quite distinctly as he rode up and gave
some orders. He was very well mounted (there were some beautiful horses)
but stooped slightly, and had rather a sad face. I never saw him again,
and the Empress only long years after at Cowes, when everything had gone
out of her life.

The President, Marshal MacMahon, was living at the Prefecture at
Versailles and received every Thursday evening. We went there several
times--it was my first introduction to the official world. The first two
or three times we drove out, but it was long (quite an hour and a
quarter) over bad roads--a good deal of pavement. One didn't care to
drive through the Park of St. Cloud at night--it was very lonely and
dark. We should have been quite helpless if we had fallen upon any
enterprising tramps, who could easily have stopped the carriage and
helped themselves to any money or jewels they could lay their hands on.
One evening the Seine had overflowed and we were obliged to walk a long
distance--all around Sevres--and got to Versailles very late and quite
exhausted with the jolting and general discomfort. After that we went
out by train--which put us at the Prefecture at ten o'clock. It wasn't
very convenient as there was a great rush for carriages when we arrived
at Versailles, still everybody did it. We generally wore black or dark
dresses 
with a lace veil tied over our heads, and of course only went
when it was fine. The evening was pleasant enough--one saw all the
political men, the marshal's personal friends of the droite went to him
in the first days of his presidency,--(they rather fell off later)--the
Government and Republicans naturally and all the diplomatic corps. There
were not many women, as it really was rather an effort to put one's self
into a low-necked dress and start off directly after dinner to the Gare
St. Lazare, and have rather a rush for places. We were always late, and
just had time to scramble into the last carriage.

I felt very strange--an outsider--all the first months, but my husband's
friends were very nice to me and after a certain time I was astonished
to find how much politics interested me. I learned a great deal from
merely listening while the men talked at dinner. I suppose I should have
understood much more if I had read the papers regularly, but I didn't
begin to do that until W. had been minister for some time, and then
worked myself into a nervous fever at all the opposition papers said
about him. However, all told, the attacks were never very vicious. He
had never been in public life until after the war when he was named
deputy and joined the Assemblee Nationale at Bordeaux--which was an
immense advantage to him. He had never served any other government, and
was therefore perfectly independent and was bound by no family
traditions or old friendships--didn't mind the opposition papers at
all--not even the caricatures. Some of them were very funny. There was
one very like him, sitting quite straight and correct on the box of a
brougham, "John Cocher Anglais n'a jamais verse, ni accroche" (English
coachman who has never upset nor run into anything).

There were a few political salons. The Countess de R. received every
evening--but only men--no women were ever asked. The wives rather
demurred at first, but the men went all the same--as one saw every one
there and heard all the latest political gossip. Another hos
tess was the
Princess Lize Troubetskoi. She was a great friend and admirer of
Thiers--was supposed to give him a great deal of information from
foreign governments. She was very eclectic in her sympathies, and every
one went to her, not only French, but all foreigners of any distinction
who passed through Paris. She gave herself a great deal of trouble for
her friends, but also used them when she wanted anything. One of the
stories which was always told of the Foreign Office was her "petit
paquet," which she wanted to send by the valise to Berlin, when the
Comte de St. Vallier was French ambassador there. He agreed willingly to
receive the package addressed to him, which proved to be a grand piano.

The privilege of sending packages abroad by the valise of the foreign
affairs was greatly abused when W. became Minister of Foreign Affairs.
He made various changes, one of which was that the valise should be
absolutely restricted to official papers and documents, which really was
perhaps well observed.

The Countess de Segur received every Saturday night. It was really an
Orleanist salon, as they were devoted friends of the Orleans family, but
one saw all the moderate Republicans there and the centre gauche (which
struggled so long to keep together and be a moderating influence, but
has long been swallowed up in the ever-increasing flood of radicalism)
and a great many literary men, members of the Institute, Academicians,
etc. They had a fine old house entre cour et jardin, with all sorts of
interesting pictures and souvenirs. Countess de S. also received every
day before three o'clock. I often went and was delighted when I could
find her alone. She was very clever, very original, had known all sorts
of people, and it was most interesting to hear her talk about King Louis
Philippe's court, the Spanish marriages, the death of the Duc d'Orleans,
the Coup d'Etat of Louis Napoleon, etc. When she first began to receive,
during the reign of Louis Philippe, the feeling was very bitter between
the Legitimists (extreme Royali
st party) and the Orleanists. The Duc
d'Orleans often came to them on Saturday evenings and always in a good
deal of state, with handsome carriage, aides-de-camp, etc. She warned
her Legitimist friends when she knew he was coming (but she didn't
always know) and said she never had any trouble or disagreeable scenes.
Every one was perfectly respectful to the duke, but the extreme
Legitimists went away at once.

We went quite often to Monsieur and Madame Thiers, who received every
evening in their big gloomy house in the Place St. Georges. It was a
political centre,--all the Republican party went there, and many of his
old friends, Orleanists, who admired his great intelligence, while
disapproving his politics,--literary men, journalists, all the
diplomatists and distinguished strangers. He had people at dinner every
night and a small reception afterward,--Madame Thiers and her sister,
Mademoiselle Dosne, doing the honours for him. I believe both ladies
were very intelligent, but I can't truthfully say they had any charm of
manner. They never looked pleased to see any one, and each took
comfortable little naps in their armchairs after dinner--the first
comers had sometimes rather embarrassing entrances,--but I am told they
held very much to their receptions. Thiers was wonderful; he was a very
old man when I knew him, but his eyes were very bright and keen, his
voice strong, and he would talk all the evening without any appearance
of fatigue. He slept every afternoon for two hours, and was quite rested
and alert by dinner time. It was an interesting group of men that stood
around the little figure in the drawing-room after dinner. He himself
stood almost always leaning against the mantelpiece. Prince Orloff,
Russian ambassador, was one of the habitues of the salon, and I was
always delighted when he would slip away from the group of men and join
the ladies in Madame Thiers's salon, which was less interesting. He knew
everybody, French and foreign, and gave me most amusing and useful
little sketches of all the celeb
rities. It was he who told me of old
Prince Gortschakoff's famous phrase when he heard of Thiers's death--(he
died at St. Germain in 1877)--"Encore une lumiere eteinte quand il y en
a si peu qui voient clair,"--(still another light extinguished, when
there are so few who see clearly). Many have gone of that
group,--Casimir Perier, Leon Say, Jules Ferry, St. Vallier, Comte Paul
de Segur, Barthelemy St. Hilaire,--but others remain, younger men who
were then beginning their political careers and were eager to drink in
lessons and warnings from the old statesman, who fought gallantly to
the last.

I found the first winter in Paris as the wife of a French deputy rather
trying, so different from the easy, pleasant life in Rome. That has
changed, too, of course, with United Italy and Rome the capital, but it
was a small Rome in our days, most informal. I don't ever remember
having written an invitation all the years we lived in Rome. Everybody
led the same life and we saw each other all day, hunting, riding,
driving, in the villas in the afternoon, generally finishing at the
Pincio, where there was music. All the carriages drew up and the young
men came and talked to the women exactly as if they were at the opera or
in a ballroom. When we had music or danced at our house, we used to tell
some well-known man to say "on danse chez Madame King ce soir." That was
all. Paris society is much stiffer, attaches much more importance to
visits and reception days.

There is very little informal receiving, no more evenings with no
amusement of any kind provided, and a small table at one end of the room
with orangeade and cakes, which I remember when I was first married (and
always in Lent the quartet of the Conservatoire playing classical
symphonies, which of course put a stop to all conversation, as people
listened to the artists of the Conservatoire in a sort of sacred
silence). Now one is invited each time, there is always music or a
comedie, sometimes a conference in Lent, and a buffet in the
dining-room. There is much more lux
ury, and women wear more jewels.
There were not many tiaras when I first knew Paris society; now every
young woman has one in her corbeille.

[Illustration: The foyer of the Opera.]

One of the first big things I saw in Paris was the opening of the Grand
Opera. It was a pretty sight, the house crowded with women beautifully
dressed and wearing fine jewels which showed very little, the decoration
of the house being very elaborate. There was so much light and gilding
that the diamonds were quite lost. The two great features of the evening
were the young King of Spain (the father of the present King), a slight,
dark, youthful figure, and the Lord Mayor of London, who really made
much more effect than the King. He was dressed in his official robes,
had two sheriffs and a macebearer, and when he stood at the top of the
grand staircase he was an imposing figure and the public was delighted
with him. He was surrounded by an admiring crowd when he walked in the
foyer. Everybody was there and W. pointed out to me the celebrities of
all the coteries. We had a box at the opera and went very regularly. The
opera was never good, never has been since I have known it, but as it is
open all the year round, one cannot expect to have the stars one hears
elsewhere. Still it is always a pleasant evening, one sees plenty of
people to talk to and the music is a cheerful accompaniment to
conversation. It is astounding how they talk in the boxes and how the
public submits. The ballet is always good. Halanzier was director of the
Grand Opera, and we went sometimes to his box behind the scenes, which
was most amusing. He was most dictatorial, occupied himself with every
detail,--was consequently an excellent director. I remember seeing him
inspect the corps de ballet one night, just before the curtain went up.
He passed down the line like a general reviewing his troops, tapping
lightly with a cane various arms and legs which were not in position. He
was perfectly smiling and good-humoured: "Voyons, voyons, mes petites,
ce n'est pas cela,"
--but saw everything.

What W. liked best was the Theatre Francais. We hadn't a box there, but
as so many of our friends had, we went very often. Tuesday was the
fashionable night and the Salle was almost as interesting as the stage,
particularly if it happened to be a premiere, and all the critics and
journalists were there. Sarah Bernhardt and Croizette were both playing
those first years. They were great rivals and it was interesting to see
them in the same play, both such fine talents yet so totally different.

III

M. WADDINGTON AS MINISTER OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION

In March, 1876, W. was made, for the second time, "Ministre de
l'Instruction Publique et des Beaux Arts," with M. Dufaure President du
Conseil, Duc Decazes at the Foreign Office, and Leon Say at the
finances. His nomination was a surprise to us. We didn't expect it at
all. There had been so many discussions, so many names put forward. It
seemed impossible to come to an understanding and form a cabinet which
would be equally acceptable to the marshal and to the Chambers. I came
in rather late one afternoon while the negotiations were going on, and
was told by the servants that M. Leon Say was waiting in W.'s library to
see him. W. came a few minutes afterward, and the two gentlemen remained
a long time talking. They stopped in the drawing-room on their way to
the door, and Say said to me: "Eh bien, madame, je vous apporte une
portefeuille et des felicitations." "Before I accept the felicitations,
I would like to know which portfolio." Of course when he said, "Public
instruction," I was pleased, as I knew it was the only one W. cared for.
My brother-in-law, Richard Waddington, senator of the Seine
Inferieure,[1] and one or two friends came to see us in the evening, and
the gentlemen talked late into the night, discussing programmes,
possibilities, etc. All the next day the conferences went on, and when
the new cabinet was presented to the marshal, he received them
graciously if not warmly. W. said both Dufaure and Decazes were quite
wonderful, realisi
ng the state of affairs exactly, and knowing the
temper of the house, which was getting more advanced every day and more
difficult to manage.

[Footnote 1: My brother-in-law, Richard Waddington, senator, died in
June, 1913, some time after these notes were written.]

W. at once convoked all the officials and staff of the ministry. He made
very few changes, merely taking the young Count de Lasteyrie, now
Marquis de Lasteyrie, grandnephew of the Marquis de Lafayette, son of M.
Jules de Lasteyrie, a senator and devoted friend of the Orleans family,
as his chef de cabinet. Two or three days after the new cabinet was
announced, W. took me to the Elysee to pay my official visit to the
Marechale de MacMahon. She received us up-stairs in a pretty salon
looking out on the garden. She was very civil, not a particularly
gracious manner--gave me the impression of a very energetic, practical
woman--what most Frenchwomen are. I was very much struck with her
writing-table, which looked most businesslike. It was covered with
quantities of letters, papers, cards, circulars of all kinds--she
attended to all household matters herself. I always heard (though she
did not tell me) that she read every letter that was addressed to her,
and she must have had hundreds of begging letters. She was very
charitable, much interested in all good works, and very kind to all
artists. Whenever a letter came asking for money, she had the case
investigated, and if the story was true, gave practical help at once. I
was dismayed at first with the number of letters received from all over
France asking my intercession with the minister on every possible
subject from a "monument historique" to be restored, to a pension given
to an old schoolmaster no longer able to work, with a large family to
support. It was perfectly impossible for me to answer them. Being a
foreigner and never having lived in France, I didn't really know
anything about the various questions. W. was too busy to attend to such
small matters, so I consulted M. de L., chef de cabinet, and
 we agreed
that I should send all the correspondence which was not strictly
personal to him, and he would have it examined in the "bureau." The
first few weeks of W.'s ministry were very trying to me--I went to see
so many people,--so many people came to see me,--all strangers with whom
I had nothing in common. Such dreary conversations, never getting beyond
the most ordinary commonplace phrases,--such an absolutely different
world from any I had ever lived in.

It is very difficult at first for any woman who marries a foreigner to
make her life in her new country. There must be so many things that are
different--better perhaps sometimes--but not what one has been
accustomed to,--and I think more difficult in France than in any other
country. French people are set in their ways, and there is so little
sympathy with anything that is not French. I was struck with that
absence of sympathy at some of the first dinners I went to. The talk was
exclusively French, almost Parisian, very personal, with stories and
allusions to people and things I knew nothing about. No one dreamed of
talking to me about my past life--or America, or any of my early
associations--yet I was a stranger--one would have thought they might
have taken a little more trouble to find some topics of general
interest. Even now, after all these years, the difference of
nationality counts. Sometimes when I am discussing with very intimate
friends some question and I find that I cannot understand their views
and they cannot understand mine, they always come back to the real
difficulty: "Ecoutez, chere amie, vous etes d'une autre race." I rather
complained to W. after the first three or four dinners--it seemed to me
bad manners, but he said no, I was the wife of a French political
man, and every one took for granted I was interested in the
conversation--certainly no one intended any rudeness. The first big
dinner I went to that year was at the Elysee--the regular official
dinner for the diplomatic corps and the Government. I had Baron von
Zuylen, the Dutc
h minister, one of our great friends, on one side of me,
Leon Renault, prefet de police, on the other. Leon Renault was very
interesting, very clever--an excellent prefet de police. Some of his
stories were most amusing. The dinner was very good (always were in the
marshal's time), not long, and mercifully the room was not too hot.
Sometimes the heat was terrible. There were quite a number of people in
the evening--the music of the garde republicaine playing, and a buffet
in the dining-room which was always crowded. We never stayed very late,
as W. always had papers to sign when we got home. Sometimes when there
was a great press of work his "signatures" kept him two hours. I don't
think the marshal enjoyed the receptions very much. Like most soldiers
he was an early riser, and the late hours and constant talking
tired him.

I liked our dinners and receptions at the ministry. All the intelligence
of France passed through our rooms. People generally came early--by ten
o'clock the rooms were quite full. Every one was announced, and it was
most interesting to hear the names of all the celebrities in every
branch of art and science. It was only a fleeting impression, as the
guests merely spoke to me at the door and passed on. In those days,
hardly any one shook hands unless they were fairly intimate--the men
never. They made me low bows some distance off and rarely stopped to
exchange a few words with me. Some of the women, not many, shook hands.
It was a fatiguing evening, as I stood so long, and a procession of
strangers passed before me. The receptions finished early--every one had
gone by eleven o'clock except a few loiterers at the buffet. There are
always a certain number of people at the big official receptions whose
principal object in coming seems to be to make a comfortable meal. The
servants always told me there was nothing left after a big party. There
were no invitations--the reception was announced in the papers, so any
one who felt he had the slightest claim upon the minister appeared at
the party. Som
e of the dresses were funny, but there was nothing
eccentric--no women in hats, carrying babies in their arms, such as one
used to see in the old days in America at the President's reception at
the White House, Washington--some very simple black silk dresses hardly
low--and of course a great many pretty women very well dressed. Some of
my American friends often came with true American curiosity, wanting to
see a phase of French life which was quite novel to them.

W. remained two years as Minister of Public Instruction, and my life
became at once very interesting, very full. We didn't live at the
ministry--it was not really necessary. All the work was over before
dinner, except the "signatures," which W. could do just as well in his
library at home. We went over and inspected the Hotel du Ministere in
the rue de Grenelle before we made our final decision, but it was not
really tempting. There were fine reception-rooms and a pretty garden,
but the living-rooms were small, not numerous, and decidedly gloomy. Of
course I saw much less of W. He never came home to breakfast, except on
Sunday, as it was too far from the rue de Grenelle to the Etoile. The
Arc de Triomphe stands in the Place de l'Etoile at the top of the
Champs-Elysees. All the great avenues, Alma, Jena, Kleber, and the
adjacent streets are known as the Quartier de l'Etoile. It was before
the days of telephones, so whenever an important communication was to be
made to him when he was at home in the evening, a dragoon galloped up
with his little black bag from which he extracted his papers. It made
quite an excitement in our quiet street the first time he arrived after
ten o'clock. We just managed our morning ride, and then there were often
people waiting to speak to W. before we started, and always when he came
back. There was a great amount of patronage attached to his ministry,
nominations to all the universities, lycees, schools, etc., and, what
was most agreeable to me, boxes at all the government theatres,--the
Grand Opera, Opera Comique, Francais, 
Odeon, and Conservatoire. Every
Monday morning we received the list for the week, and, after making
our own selection, distributed them to the official world
generally,--sometimes to our own personal friends. The boxes of the
Francais, Opera, and Conservatoire were much appreciated.

I went very regularly to the Sunday afternoon concerts at the
Conservatoire, where all classical music was splendidly given. They
confined themselves generally to the strictly classic, but were
beginning to play a little Schumann that year. Some of the faces of the
regular habitues became most familiar to me. There were three or four
old men with grey hair sitting in the first row of stalls (most
uncomfortable seats) who followed every note of the music, turning
around and frowning at any unfortunate person in a box who dropped a fan
or an opera-glass. It was funny to hear the hum of satisfaction when any
well-known movement of Beethoven or Mozart was attacked. The orchestra
was perfect, at its best I think in the "scherzos" which they took in
beautiful style--so light and sure. I liked the instrumental part much
better than the singing. French voices, the women's particularly, are
thin, as a rule. I think they sacrifice too much to the
"diction,"--don't bring out the voices enough--but the style and
training are perfect of their kind.

The Conservatoire is quite as much a social feature as a school of
music. It was the thing to do on Sunday afternoon. No invitation was
more appreciated, as it was almost impossible to have places unless one
was invited by a friend. All the boxes and seats (the hall is small)
belong to subscribers and have done so for one or two generations. Many
marriages are made there. There are very few theatres in Paris to which
girls can be taken, but the Opera Comique and the Conservatoire are very
favourite resorts. When a marriage is pending the young lady, very well
dressed (always in the simplest tenue de jeune fille) is taken to the
Conservatoire or the Opera Comique by her father and mother, and very
ofte
n her grandmother. She sits in front of the box and the young man in
the stalls, where he can study his future wife without committing
himself. The difference of dress between the jeune fille and the jeune
femme is very strongly marked in France. The French girl never wears
lace or jewels or feathers or heavy material of any kind, quite unlike
her English or American contemporaries, who wear what they like. The
wedding-dress is classic, a simple, very long dress of white satin, and
generally a tulle veil over the face. When there is a handsome lace veil
in the family, the bride sometimes wears it, but no lace on her dress.
The first thing the young married woman does is to wear a very long
velvet dress with feathers in her hair.

I think on the whole the arranged marriages turn out as well as any
others. They are generally made by people of the same monde, accustomed
to the same way of living, and the fortunes as nearly alike as possible.
Everything is calculated. The young couple usually spend the summer with
parents or parents-in-law, in the chateau, and I know some cases where
there are curious details about the number of lamps that can be lighted
in their rooms, and the use of the carriage on certain days. I am
speaking of course of purely French marriages. To my American ideas it
seemed very strange when I first came to Europe, but a long residence in
a foreign country certainly modifies one's impressions. Years ago, when
we were living in Rome, four sisters, before any of us were married, a
charming Frenchwoman, Duchesse de B., who came often to the house, was
very worried about this family of girls, all very happy at home and
contented with their lives. It was quite true we danced and hunted and
made a great deal of music, without ever troubling ourselves about the
future. The duchesse couldn't understand it, used often to talk to
mother very seriously. She came one day with a proposal of marriage--a
charming man, a Frenchman, not too young, with a good fortune, a title,
and a chateau, had seen Madam King'
s daughters in the ballroom and
hunting-field, and would very much like to be presented and make his
cour. "Which one?" we naturally asked, but the answer was vague. It
sounded so curiously impersonal that we could hardly take it seriously.
However, we suggested that the young man should come and each one of the
four would show off her particular talent. One would play and one would
sing (rather like the song in the children's book, "one could dance and
one could sing, and one could play the violin"), and the third, the
polyglot of the family, could speak several languages. We were rather
puzzled as to what my eldest sister could do, as she was not very
sociable and never spoke to strangers if she could help it, so we
decided she must be very well dressed and preside at the tea-table
behind an old-fashioned silver urn that we always used--looking like a
stately maitresse de maison receiving her guests. We confided all these
plans to the duchesse, but she was quite put out with us, wouldn't bring
the young man nor tell us his name. We never knew who he was. Since I
have been a Frenchwoman (devant la loi)--I think all Americans remain
American no matter where they marry,--I have interested myself three or
four times in made marriages, which have generally turned out well.
There were very few Americans married in France all those years, now
there are legions of all kinds. I don't remember any in the official
parliamentary world I lived in the first years of my marriage--nor
English either. It was absolutely French, and rather borne French. Very
few of the people, the women especially, had any knowledge or experience
of foreign countries, and didn't care to have,--France was enough
for them.

W. was very happy at the Ministry of Public Instruction,--all the
educational questions interested him so much and the tournees en
province and visits to the big schools and universities,--some of them,
in the south of France particularly, singularly wanting in the most
elementary details of hygiene and cleanliness, and it was v
ery difficult
to make the necessary changes, giving more light, air, and space.
Routine is a powerful factor in this very conservative country, where so
many things exist simply because they have always existed. Some of his
letters from Bordeaux, Toulouse, and Montpellier were most interesting.
As a rule he was very well received and got on very well, strangely
enough, with the clergy, particularly the haut clerge, bishops and
cardinals. His being a Protestant was rather a help to him; he could
take an impartial view of things.

At Bordeaux he stayed at the Prefecture, where he was very comfortable,
but the days were fatiguing. He said he hadn't worked so hard for years.
He started at nine in the morning, visiting schools and universities,
came home to breakfast at twelve, and immediately after had a small
reception, rectors, professors, and people connected with the schools he
wanted to talk to, at three started again seeing more schools and going
conscientiously over the buildings from basement to garret,--then visits
to the cardinal, archbishop, general commanding, etc.--a big dinner and
reception in the evening, the cardinal present in his red robes, his
coadjutor in purple, the officers in uniform, and all the people
connected in any way with the university, who were pleased to see their
chief. There was a total absence of Bonapartist senators and deputies
(which was not surprising, as W. had always been in violent opposition
to the Empire), who were rather numerous in these parts. W. was really
quite exhausted when he got back to Paris--said it was absolute luxury
to sit quietly and read in his library, and not talk. It wasn't a luxury
that he enjoyed very much, for whenever he was in the house there was
always some one talking to him in his study and others waiting in the
drawing-room. Every minute of the day he was occupied. People were
always coming to ask for something for themselves or some members of
their family, always candidates for the Institute, anxiously inquiring
what their chances were, and if
 he had recommended them to his friends.
It is striking even in this country of functionaries (I think there are
more small public employees in France than in any other country) how
many applicants there were always for the most insignificant places--a
Frenchman loves a cap with gold braid and gilt buttons on his coat.

All the winter of 1876, which saw the end of the National Assembly and
the beginning of a new regime, was an eventful one in parliamentary
circles. I don't know if the country generally was very much excited
about a new constitution and a change of government. I don't think the
country in France (the small farmers and peasants) are ever much excited
about the form of government. As long as the crops are good and there is
no war to take away their sons and able-bodied men, they don't care,
often don't know, whether a king or an emperor is reigning over them.
They say there are some far-off villages half hidden in the forests and
mountains who still believe that a king and a Bourbon is reigning in
France. Something had to be decided; the provisoire could no longer
continue; the country could not go on without a settled government. All
the arguments and negotiations of that period have been so often told,
that I will not go into any details. The two centres, centre droit and
centre gauche, had everything in their hands as the great moderating
elements of the Assembly, but the conflicting claims of the various
parties, Legitimist, Orleanist, Bonapartist, and advanced Left, made the
question a very difficult one.

W. as a member of the Comite des Trente was very much occupied and
preoccupied. He came back generally very late from Versailles, and, when
he did dine at home, either went out again after dinner to some of the
numerous meetings at different houses or had people at home. I think the
great majority of deputies were honestly trying to do what they thought
best for the country, and when one remembers the names and personalities
on both sides--MacMahon, Broglie, d'Audiffret-Pasquier, Buffet, Dufa
ure,
and Thiers, Casimir Perier, Leon Say, Jules Simon, Jules Ferry,
Freycinet, and many others, it is impossible to think that any of those
men were animated by any spirit other than love of the country and an
ardent desire to see some stable government restored which would enable
France to take her place again among the great powers. Unfortunately the
difference of opinion as to the form of government made things very
difficult. Some of the young deputies, just fresh from the war and
smarting under a sense of humiliation, were very violent in their abuse
of any Royalist and particularly Bonapartist restoration.

[Illustration: Meeting of officers of the National Assembly, and of
delegates of the new Chambers, in the salon of Hercules, palace of
Versailles. From _L'Illustration_, March 11. 1876.]

IV

THE SOCIAL SIDE OF A MINISTER'S WIFE

My first big dinner at the Ministry of Public Instruction rather
intimidated me. We were fifty people--I the only lady. I went over to
the ministry in the afternoon to see the table, which was very well
arranged with quantities of flowers, beautiful Sevres china, not much
silver--there is very little left in France, it having all been melted
at the time of the Revolution. The official dinners are always well done
in Paris. I suppose the traditions of the Empire have been handed down.
We arrived a few minutes before eight, all the staff and directors
already there, and by ten minutes after eight every one had arrived. I
sat between Gerome, the painter, and Renan, two very different men but
each quite charming,--Gerome tall, slight, animated, talking very easily
about everything. He told me who a great many of the people were, with a
little commentary on their profession and career which was very useful
to me, as I knew so few of them. Renan was short, stout, with a very
large head, almost unprepossessing-looking, but with a great charm of
manner and the most delightful smile and voice imaginable. He often
dined with us in our own house, en petit comite, and was always
charming. 
He was one of those happy mortals (there are not many) who
made every subject they discuss interesting.

After that first experience, I liked the big men's dinners very much.
There was no general conversation; I talked exclusively to my two
neighbours, but as they were always distinguished in some branch of art,
science, or literature, the talk was brilliant, and I found the hour our
dinner lasted a very short one. W. was very particular about not having
long dinners. Later, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we
sometimes had eighty guests, the dinner was never over an hour. I did
not remain the whole evening at the men's dinners. As soon as they
dispersed to talk and smoke, I came away, leaving W. to entertain his
guests. We often had big receptions with music and comedie. At one of
our first big parties we had several of the Orleans family. I was rather
nervous, as I had never received royalty,--in fact I had never spoken to
a royal prince or princess. I had lived a great deal in Rome, as a girl,
during the last days of Pius IX, and I was never in Paris during the
Empire. When we went back to Rome one winter, after the accession of
King Victor Emmanuel, I found myself for the first time in a room with
royalties, the Prince and Princesse de Piemont. I remember quite well
being so surprised by seeing two of the Roman men we knew very well come
backward into the ballroom where we were sitting. I thought they must be
anticipating the Mardi Gras and were masquerading a little, didn't
realise that every one was standing. I remained sitting for a moment
(much to the horror of one of the English secretaries who was with us
and who thought we were going to make a spread-eagle American
demonstration and remain sitting when royalty appeared). However, by
some sort of instinct, we rose too (perhaps to see what was going on),
just as the princes passed. Princess Marguerite looked charming, dressed
in white, with her splendid pearls and beautiful fair hair.

When it was decided that we should ask the Orleans princes t
o our party,
I thought I would go to see the Duc Decazes, the foreign minister, a
charming man and charming colleague, to get some precise information
about my part of the entertainment. He couldn't think what I wanted when
I invaded his cabinet, and was much amused when I stated my case.

"There is nothing unusual in receiving the princes at a ministry. You
must do as you have always done."

"But that is just the question, I have _never done_. I have never in my
life exchanged a word with a royal personage."

"It is not possible!"

"It is absolutely true; I have never lived anywhere where there was a
court."

When he saw that I was in earnest he was as nice as possible, told me
_exactly_ what I wanted to know,--that I need not say "Altesse royale"
every time I spoke, merely occasionally, as they all like it,--that I
must speak in the third person, "Madame veut-elle," "Monseigneur veut-il
me permettre," etc., also that I must always be at the door when a
princess arrived and conduct her myself to her seat.

"But if I am at one end of the long enfilade of rooms taking the
Comtesse de Paris to her seat and another princess (Joinville or
Chartres) should arrive; what has to be done?"

"Your husband must always be at the door with his chef de cabinet, who
will replace him while he takes the princess to her place."

The Marquise de L., a charming old lady with white hair, beautiful blue
eyes, and pink cheeks, a great friend of the Orleans family, went with
me when I made my round of visits to thank the royal ladies for
accepting our invitation. We found no one but the Princesse Marguerite,
daughter of the Duc de Nemours, who was living at Neuilly. I had all my
instructions from the marquise, how many courtesies to make, how to
address her, and above all not to speak until the princess spoke to me.
We were shown into a pretty drawing-room, opening on a garden, where the
princess was waiting, standing at one end of the room. Madame de L.
named me, I made my courtesies, the princess shook hands, and then we
remained stan
ding, facing each other. She didn't say anything. I stood
perfectly straight and quiet, waiting. She changed colour, moved her
hands nervously, was evidently overcome with shyness, but didn't utter a
sound. It seemed very long, was really only a few seconds, but I was
getting rather nervous when suddenly a child ran across the garden. That
broke the ice and she asked me the classic royal question, "Avez-vous
des enfants, madame?" I had only one, and he was rather small, but still
his nurse, his teeth, and his food carried me on for a little while and
after that we had some general conversation, but I can't say the visit
was really interesting. As long as I was in public life I regretted
that I had but the one child,--children and nurseries and schoolrooms
were always an unfailing topic of conversation. Frenchwomen of all
classes take much more interest in the details of their nurseries and
the education and bringing-up of their children than we Anglo-Saxons do.
I know several mammas who followed all the course of their sons' studies
when they were preparing their baccalaureat, even to writing the
compositions. The head nurse (English) who takes entire charge of her
nursery, who doesn't like any interference, and brings the children to
their mother at stated hours, doesn't exist in France.

Our party was very brilliant, all sorts of notabilities of all kinds,
and the leading Paris artists from the Grand Opera, Opera Comique, and
the Francais. As soon as the performance was over W. told me I must go
and thank the artists; he could not leave his princes. I started off to
the last of the long suite of salons where they were all assembled.
Comte de L., W.'s chef de cabinet, went with me, and we were preceded by
a huissier with sword and chain, who piloted us through the crowd. I
felt very shy when I arrived in the greenroom. The artists were drawn up
in two rows, the women on one side, the men on the other, all eyes of
course fixed upon madame la ministresse. Madame Carvalho, Sarah
Bernhardt, and Croizette were standi
ng at the head of the long line of
women; Faure, Talazac, Delaunay, Coquelin, on the other side. I went
first all along the line of women, then came back by the men. I realised
instantly after the first word of thanks and interest how easy it is for
princes, or any one in high places, to give pleasure. They all responded
so smilingly and naturally to everything I said. After the first two or
three words, I didn't mind at all, and found myself discussing
acoustics, the difficulty of playing any well-known part without
costumes, scenery, etc., the inconvenience of having the public so near,
quite easily. We often had music and recitations at our parties, and
that was always a great pleasure to me. I remember so well one evening
when we had the chorus of the Conservatoire and they sang quite
beautifully the old "Plaisirs d'Amour" of our childhood. It had a great
success and they were obliged to repeat it. W. made one great innovation
in the dress of the ladies of the Conservatoire chorus. They were always
dressed in white, which was very well for the young, slight figures, but
was less happy for a stout middle-aged lady. So after much discussion it
was decided to adopt black as the official dress and I must say it was
an enormous improvement.

THE SOCIAL SIDE

All sorts of interesting people came to see us at the Ministry of Public
Instruction,--among others the late Emperor of Brazil, Don Pedro de
Bragance, who spent some months in Paris that year with his daughter,
the young Comtesse d'Eu. He was a tall, good-looking man, with a
charming easy manner, very cultivated and very keen about
everything--art, literature, politics. His gentlemen said he had the
energy of a man of twenty-five, and he was well over middle age when he
was in Paris. They were quite exhausted sometimes after a long day of
visits and sightseeing with him. He was an early riser. One of the first
rendezvous he gave W. was at nine o'clock in the morning, which greatly
disturbed that gentleman's habits. He was never an early riser, worked
always ve
ry late (said his best despatches were written after midnight),
and didn't care about beginning his day too early. Another interesting
personality was Mommsen, the German historian and savant. He was a
picturesque-looking old man with keen blue eyes and a quantity of white
hair. I don't think anything modern interested him very much. He was an
old man when I first saw him, and looked even older than his age. He and
W. used to plunge into very long, learned discussions over antiquities
and medals. W. said the hours with Mommsen rested him, such a change
from the "shop" talk always mixed with politics in France.

We often had political breakfasts at home (more breakfasts than
dinners). Our Aisne deputies and senators were not very mondains, didn't
care much to dine out. They were pleasant enough when they talked about
subjects that interested them. Henri Martin, senator of the Aisne, was
an old-fashioned Republican, absolutely convinced that no other
government would ever succeed in France, but he was moderate. St.
Vallier, also a senator from the Aisne, was nervous and easily
discouraged when things didn't go smoothly, but he too thought the
Republic was the only possible government now, whatever his preferences
might have been formerly.

W.'s ministry came to an end on the famous 16th of May, 1877, when
Marshal MacMahon suddenly took matters in his own hands and dismissed
his cabinet presided over by M. Jules Simon. Things had not been going
smoothly for some time, could not between two men of such absolute
difference of origin, habits, and ideas. Still, the famous letter
written by the marshal to Jules Simon was a thunderclap. I was walking
about the Champs-Elysees and Faubourg St. Honore on the morning of the
16th of May, and saw all the carriages, our own included, waiting at the
Ministry of the Interior, where the conseil was sitting. I went home to
breakfast, thought W. was later than usual, but never dreamed of what
was happening. When he finally appeared, quite composed and smiling,
with his news, "We are 
out of office; the marshal has sent us all about
our business," I could hardly believe it, even when he told me all the
details. I had known for a long time that things were not going well,
but there were always so much friction and such opposing elements in the
cabinet that I had not attached much importance to the accounts of
stormy sittings and thought things would settle down.

[Illustration: Theodor Mommsen. From a painting by Franz von Lenbach.]

W. said the marshal was very civil to him, but it was evident that he
could not stand Jules Simon any longer and the various measures that he
felt were impending. We had many visitors after breakfast, all much
excited, wondering what the next step would be--if the Chambers would be
dissolved, the marshal trying to impose a cabinet of the Right or
perhaps form another moderate liberal cabinet without Jules Simon, but
retaining some of his ministers. It was my reception afternoon, and
while I was sitting quietly in my drawing-room talking to some of my
friends, making plans for the summer, quite pleased to have W. to
myself again, the butler hurried into the room telling me that the
Marechale de MacMahon was on the stairs, coming to make me a visit. I
was very much surprised, as she never came to see me. We met very
rarely, except on official occasions, and she made no secret of her
dislike to the official Republican ladies (but she was always absolutely
correct if not enthusiastic). I had just time to get to the head of the
stairs to receive her. She was very amiable, a little embarrassed, took
a cup of tea--said the marshal was very sorry to part with W., he had
never had any trouble or disagreement with him of any kind, but that it
was impossible to go on with a cabinet when neither party had any
confidence in the other. I quite agreed, said it was the fortunes of
war; I hoped the marshal would find another premier who would be more
sympathetic with him, and then we talked of other things.

My friends were quite amused. One of them, Marquise de T., knew the
Marech
ale quite well, and said she was going to ask her if she was
obliged to make visites de condoleance to the wives of all the fallen
ministers. W. was rather astonished when I told him who had come to tea
with me, and thought the conversation must have been difficult. I told
him, not at all, once the necessary phrases about the departing
ministers were over. The piano was open, music littered about; she was
fond of music and she admired very much a portrait of father as a boy in
the Harrow dress, asked who it was and what the dress was. She was a
perfect woman of the world, and no one was uncomfortable.

It seemed quite strange and very pleasant to take up my old life again
after two years of public life. W. breakfasted at home, went to the
Senate every day and to the Institute on Fridays and we dined with our
friends and had small dinners in our own house instead of official
banquets at all the ministries (usually from Potel and Chabot at so much
a head). Politics were very lively all summer. The Chambers were
dissolved almost at once after the constitution of the new cabinet,
presided over by the Duc de Broglie. It was evident from the first
moment that the new ministry wouldn't, couldn't live. (The Duc de
Broglie was quite aware of the fact. His first words on taking office
were: "On nous a jetes a l'eau, maintenant il faut nager.") He made a
very good fight, but he had that worst of all faults for a leader, he
was unpopular. He was a brilliant, cultured speaker, but had a curt,
dictatorial manner, with an air always of looking down upon his public.
So different from his colleague, the Duc Decazes, whose charming,
courteous manners and nice blue eyes made him friends even among his
adversaries. There is a well-known story told of the two dukes which
shows exactly the personality of the men. Some one, a deputy I think,
wanted something very much which either of the gentlemen could give. He
went first to the Duc Decazes, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, who
received him charmingly, was most kind and courteous, bu
t didn't do what
the man wanted. He then went to the Duc de Broglie, President du
Conseil, who was busy, received him very curtly, cut short his
explanations, and was in fact extremely disagreeable but did the thing,
and the man loved Decazes and hated de Broglie. All sorts of rumours
were afloat; we used to hear the wildest stories and plans. One day W.
came in looking rather preoccupied. There was an idea that the Right
were going to take most stringent measures, arrest all the ministers,
members of Jules Simon's cabinet, many of the prominent Liberals. He
said it was quite possible and then gave me various instructions. I was
above all to make no fuss if they really came to arrest him. He showed
me where all his keys, papers, and money were, told me to go instantly
to his uncle, Mr. Lutteroth, who lived next door. He was an old
diplomat, knew everybody, and would give me very good advice. I did not
feel very happy, but like so many things that are foretold, nothing
ever happened.

Another rumour, from the extreme Left this time, was that a large armed
force under the command of a well-known general, very high up in his
career, was to assemble in the north at Lille, a strong contingent of
Republicans were to join them to be ready to act. I remember quite well
two of W.'s friends coming in one morning, full of enthusiasm for this
plan. I don't think they quite knew what they were going to do with
their army. W. certainly did not. He listened to all the details of the
plan; they gave him the name of the general, supposed to have very
Republican sympathies (not generally the case with officers), the number
of regiments, etc., who would march at a given signal, but when he said,
"It is possible, you might get a certain number of men together, but
what would you do with them?" they were rather nonplussed. They hadn't
got any further than a grand patriotic demonstration, with the military,
drums beating, flags flying, and the Marseillaise being howled by an
excited crowd. No such extreme measures, however, were ever 
carried
out. From the first moment it was evident that a large Republican
majority would be returned; almost all the former deputies were
re-elected and a number of new ones, more advanced in their opinion. In
the country it was the only topic of conversation.

Parliament was dissolved in June, 1877, but we remained in town until
the end of July. It wasn't very warm and many people remained until the
end of the session. The big schools too only break up on the 15th of
July, and many parents remain in Paris. The Republican campaign had
already begun, and there were numerous little dinners and meetings when
plans and possibilities were discussed. W. got back usually very late
from Versailles. When he knew the sitting would be very late he sent me
word and I used to go and dine with mother, but sometimes he was kept on
there from hour to hour. I had some long waits before we could dine, and
Hubert, the coachman, used to spend hours in the courtyard of the Gare
St. Lazare waiting for his master. We had a big bay mare, a very fast
trotter, which always did the train service, and the two were stationed
there sometimes from six-thirty to nine-thirty, but they never seemed
the worse for it. W., though a very considerate man for his servants
generally, never worried at all about keeping his coachmen and horses
waiting. He said the coachmen were the most warmly dressed men in Paris,
always took care to be well covered, and we never had fancy,
high-stepping horses, but ordinary strong ones, which could wait
patiently. W. said the talk in the Chambers and in the lobbies was quite
wild--every sort of extravagant proposition was made. There were many
conferences with the Duc d'Audiffret-Pasquier, Duc de Broglie--with
Casimir Perier, Leon Say, Gambetta, Jules Ferry, and Freycinet--where
the best men on both sides tried hard to come to an agreement. W. went
several times in August to see M. Thiers, who was settled at St.
Germain. The old statesman was as keen as ever, receiving every day all
sorts of deputations, advising, warni
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Joel Erickson, Dave Avis
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

[Illustration: LOUIS DASHED THE GLOWING END OF HIS CIGAR IN THE <DW64>'S
FACE.]

A BEAUTIFUL POSSIBILITY

BY

EDITH FERGUSON BLACK

A BEAUTIFUL POSSIBILITY.

CHAPTER I.

In one of the fairest of the West Indian islands a simple but elegant
villa lifted its gabled roofs amidst a bewildering wealth of tropical
beauty. Brilliant birds flitted among the foliage, gold and silver
fishes darted to and fro in a large stone basin of a fountain which
threw its glittering spray over the lawn in front of the house, and on
the vine-shaded veranda hammocks hung temptingly, and low wicker chairs
invited to repose.

Behind the jalousies of the library the owner of the villa sat at a
desk, busily writing. He was a slight, delicate looking man, with an
expression of careless good humor upon his face and an easy air of
assurance according with the interior of the room which bespoke a
cultured taste and the ability to gratify it. Books were everywhere,
rare bits of china, curios and exquisitely tinted shells lay in
picturesque confusion upon tables and wall brackets of native woods;
soft silken draperies fell from the windows and partially screened from
view a large alcove where microscopes of different sizes stood upon
cabinets whose shelves were filled with a miscellaneous collection of
rare plants and beautiful insects, specimens from the agate forest of
Arizona, petrified remains from the 'Bad Lands' of Dakota, feathery
fronded seaweed, skeletons of birds and strange wild creatures, and all
the countless curiosities in which naturalists delight.

Lenox Hildreth when a young man, forced to flee from the rigors of the
New England climate by reason of an inherited tendency to pulmonary
disease, had chosen Barbadoes as his adopted country, and had never
since revisited the land of his birth. From the first, fortune had
smiled upon him, and when, some time after his marriage with the
daughter of a wealthy planter, she had come into possession of all h
er
father's estates, he had built the house which for fifteen years he had
called home. When Evadne, their only daughter, was a little maiden of
six, his wife had died, and for nine years father and child had been all
the world to each other.

He finished writing at last with a sigh of relief, and folding the
letter, together with one addressed to Evadne, he enclosed both in a
large envelope which he sealed and addressed to Judge Hildreth,
Marlborough, Mass. Then he leaned back in his chair, and, clasping his
hands behind his head, looked fixedly at the picture of his fair young
wife which hung above his desk.

"A bad job well done, Louise--or a good one. Our little lass isn't very
well adapted to making her way among strangers, and the Bohemianism of
this life is a poor preparation for the heavy respectability of a New
England existence. Lawrence is a good fellow, but that wife of his
always put me in mind of iced champagne, sparkling and cold." He sighed
heavily, "Poor little Vad! It is a dreary outlook, but it seems my one
resource. Lawrence is the only relative I have in the world.

"After all, I may be fighting windmills, and years hence may laugh at
this morning's work as an example of the folly of yielding to
unnecessary alarm. Danvers is getting childish. All physicians get to be
old fogies, I fancy, a natural sequence to a life spent in hunting down
germs I suppose. They grow to imagine them where none exist."

He rose, and strolled out on the veranda. As he did so, a <DW64>, whose
snow-white hair had earned for him from his master the sobriquet of
Methusaleh, came towards the broad front steps. He was a grotesque image
as he stood doffing a large palm-leaf hat, and Lenox Hildreth felt an
irresistible inclination to laugh, and laughed accordingly. His
morning's occupation had been one of the rare instances in which he had
run counter to his inclinations. Sky blue cotton trousers showed two
brown ankles before his feet hid themselves in a pair of clumsy shoes; a
scarlet shirt, ornamented with large brass 
buttons and fastened at the
throat with a cotton handkerchief of vivid corn color, was surmounted by
an old nankeen coat, upon whose gaping elbows a careful wife had sewn
patches of green cloth; his hands were encased in white cotton gloves
three sizes too large, whose finger tips waved in the wind as their
wearer flourished his palm-leaf headgear in deprecating obeisance.

"Well, Methusaleh, where are you off to now?" and Lenox Hildreth leaned
against a flower wreathed pillar in lazy amusement.

"To camp-meetin', Mass Hildreff. I hez your permission, sah?" and the
<DW64> rolled his eyes with a ludicrous expression of humility.

His master laughed with the easy indulgence which made his servants
impose upon him.

"You seem to have taken it, you rascal. It is rather late in the day to
ask for permission when you and your store clothes are all ready for a
start."

"'Scuse me, Mass Hildreff," with another deprecating wave of the
palm-leaf hat, "but yer see I knowed yer wouldn't dissapint me of de
priv'lege uv goin' ter camp-meetin' nohow."

Lenox Hildreth held his cigar between his slender fingers and watched
the tiny wreaths of smoke as they circled about his head.

"So camp-meeting is a privilege, is it?" he said carelessly. "How much
more good will it do you to go there than to stay at home and hoe my
corn?"

The eyes were rolled up until only the whites were visible.

"Powerful sight more good, Mass Hildreff. De preacher's 'n uncommon
relijus man, an' de 'speriences uv de bredren is mighty upliftin'. Yes,
sah!"

"Well, see that they don't lift you up so high that you'll forget to
come down again. I suppose you have an experience in common with the
rest?"

"Yes, Mass Hildreff," and the palm-leaf made another gyration through
the air. "I'se got a powerful 'sperience, sah."

"Well, off you go. It would be a pity to deprive the assembly of such
an edifying specimen of sanctimoniousness."

"Yes, sah, I'se bery sanktimonyus. I'se 'bliged to you, sah."

With a last obsequious flourish the palm-leaf was restored to its

resting-place upon the snowy wool, and the <DW64> shambled away. When he
had gone a few yards a sudden thought struck his master and he called,--

"Methusaleh, I say, Methusaleh!"

"Yes, sah," and the servant retraced his steps.

"What about that turkey of mine that you stole last week? You can't go
to camp-meeting with that on your conscience. Come, now, better take off
your finery and repent in sackcloth and ashes."

For an instant the <DW64> was nonplused, then the palm-leaf was
flourished grandiloquently, while its owner said in a voice of withering
scorn,--

"Laws! Mass Hildreff, do yer spose I'se goin' ter neglec' de Lawd fer
one lil' turkey?"

His master turned on his heel with a low laugh. "Of a piece with the
whole of them!" he said bitterly. "Hypocrites and shams!"

"Evadne!" he exclaimed impetuously, as a slight girlish figure came
towards him, "never say a single word that you do not mean nor express
a sensation that you have not felt. It is the people who neglect this
rule who play havoc with themselves and the world."

"Why, dearest, you frighten me!" and the girl slipped her hand through
his arm with a low, sweet laugh. "I never saw you look so solemn
before."

"Hypocrisy, Vad, is the meanest thing on earth! The pious people at the
church yonder call me an unbeliever, but they've got themselves to thank
for it. I may be a good-for-nothing but at least I will not preach what
I do not practise."

"You are as good as gold, dearest. I won't have you say such horrid
things! And you don't need to preach anything. I am sure no one in all
the world could be happier than we."

Her father put his hand under her chin, and, lifting her face towards
his, looked long and earnestly at the pure brow, about which the brown
hair clustered in natural curls, the clear-cut nose, the laughing lips
parted over a row of pearls, and the wonderful deep gray eyes.

"_Are_ you happy, little one?" he asked wistfully. "Are you quite sure
about that?"

"Happy!" the girl echoed the word with an incredulous smile. "Why,
dearest, w
hat has come to you? You never needed to ask me such a
question before! Don't you know there isn't a girl in Barbadoes who has
been so thoroughly spoiled, and has found the spoiling so sweet? Do I
look more than usually mournful to-day that you should think I am pining
away with grief?" She looked up at him with a roguish laugh.

He smiled and laid his finger caressingly on the dimpled chin. "Dear
little bird!" he said tenderly; "but when this dimple captivates the
heart of some one, Vad, you will fly away and leave the poor father in
the empty nest."

Her color glowed softly through the olive skin. She threw her arms
around his neck and laid her face against his breast. "You know better!"
she exclaimed passionately. "You know I wouldn't leave you for all the
'some ones' in the world!"

Her father caught her close. "Poor little lass!" he said with a sigh.

The girl lifted her head and looked at him anxiously. "Dearest, what
_is_ the matter? I am sure you are not well! You have been sitting too
long at that tiresome writing."

"Yes, that is it, darling," he said with a sudden change of tone.
"Writing always does give me the blues. I think the man who invented the
art should have been put in a pillory for the rest of his natural life.
Blow your whistle for Sam to bring the horses and we will go for a ride
along the beach."

Evadne lifted the golden whistle which hung at her girdle and blew the
call which the well-trained servant understood. "Fi, dearest!" she said,
"if there were no writing there would be no books, and what would become
of our beautiful evenings then? But I am glad you do not have to write
much, since it tires you so. What has it all been about, dear? Am I
never to know?"

"Some day, perhaps, little Vad. But do not indulge in the besetting sin
of your sex, or, like the mother of the race, you may find your apple
choke you in the chewing."

Evadne shook her finger at him. "Naughty one! As if you were not three
times as curious as I! And when it comes to waiting,--you should have
named me Patience, s
ir!"

Her father laughed as he kissed her, then he tied on her hat, threw on
his own, and hand-in-hand like two children they ran down the veranda
steps to where the groom stood waiting with the horses.

CHAPTER II.

A month full of happy days had flown by when Evadne and her father
returned one morning from a long tramp in search of specimens. A
delightful afternoon had followed, he in a hammock, she on a low seat
beside him, arranging, classifying and preparing their morning's spoil
for the microscope. Suddenly she turned towards him with a troubled
face.

"Dearest, how pale you look! Are you very tired?"

"It is only the heat," he answered lightly. "We had a pretty stiff walk
this morning, you know."

"And I carried you on and on!" she cried reproachfully. "I was so
anxious to find this particular crab. Isn't he a pretty fellow?" and she
lifted the box that her father might watch the tiny creature's play. "I
shall go at once and make you an orange sherbet."

"Let Dinah do it and you stay here with me."

"No indeed! You know you think no one can make them as well as I do. I
promise you this one shall be superfine."

"As you will, little one,--only don't stay away too long."

He lay very still after she had left him, looking dreamily through the
vines at the silver spray of the fountain. The air had grown
oppressively sultry; no breath of wind stirred the heavily drooping
leaves, no sound except the rhythmic splash of the fountain and the soft
lapping of the waves upon the beach. He closed his eyes while their
ceaseless monotone seemed to beat upon his brain.

"Forever! Forever! Forever!"

A spasm of pain crossed his face as Evadne's voice woke the echoes with
a merry song. "Poor little lass!" he murmured. Then he smiled as she
came towards him, quaffed off the beverage she had prepared with loving
skill, and called her the best cook in all the Indies.

"Has it refreshed you, dearest?" she asked anxiously.

"Immensely! Now you shall read me some of Lalla Rookh, and after dinner
I will set about making a Mecca fo
r your crab."

Evadne stroked the dainty claws,--

"Poor little chap! So you are a pilgrim like the rest of us. I wish we
did not have to go on and on, dearest!" she exclaimed passionately,
"why cannot we stand still and enjoy?"

"It would grow monotonous, little Vad. Progress is the law of all being,
and seventy years of life is generally enough for the majority. You
would not like to live to be an old lady of two hundred and fifty? Think
how tired you would be!"

She laid her cheek against his upon the pillow. "I should _never_ grow
tired,--with you!"

The evening drew on, hot and breathless. Low growls of distant thunder
were heard at intervals, and in the eastern sky the lightning played.

Evadne watched it, sitting on the top step of the veranda, her white
muslin dress in happy contrast with the deep green of the vines which
clustered thickly about the pillar against which she leaned. On the step
below her a young man sat. He too was clad in white and the rich crimson
of the silken scarf which he wore about his waist enhanced his Spanish
beauty. A zither lay across his knees over which his hands wandered
skilfully as he made the air tremble with dreamy music. Mr. Hildreth
paced slowly up and down the veranda behind them.

"What is the news from the great world, Geoff? I saw a troop ship
signaled this morning. Have you been on board yet?"

"No, sir, I have been looking over the plantation with my father all
day, and only got home in time for dinner."

"You chose a cool time for it!" and Mr. Hildreth laughed.

Geoffrey Chittenden shrugged his shoulders. "When Geoffrey Chittenden,
Senior, makes up his mind to do anything, he has the most sublime
indifference for the thermometer of any one I ever had the honor of
knowing. But the ship only brought a small detachment, I believe; she
will carry away a larger one. The garrison here is to be reduced, you
know."

"Yes, it is a mistake I think. Will Drewson have to go? He has been on
this Station longer than any of the others."

"Yes, his company has marching orders f
or Malta. He told me last night
he was coming to take leave of you next week."

"Our nice Captain Drewson going away!" Evadne exclaimed, aghast. "Why,
dearest, he is one of our oldest friends!"

"The law of progression, Vad darling."

"How I hate it!" she cried, while her lips trembled. "Why can't we just
live on in the old happy way? You will be going next, Geoff, and the
Hamiltons and the Vandervoorts. Does nothing last?"

Her voice hushed itself into silence and again Lenox Hildreth heard the
soft waves singing,--

"Forever! Forever! Forever!"

"Oh yes, Evadne," Geoffrey said with a laugh: "we are very lasting. It
is only the unfortunate people under military rule who prove unreliable.
Let me sing you my latest song to cheer your spirits. I only learned it
last week."

He struck a few chords and was beginning his song when a low groan made
him spring to his feet. Evadne passed him like a flash of light and flew
to her father's side. He was leaning heavily against a pillar with his
handkerchief, already showing crimson stains, pressed tightly against his
lips.

They laid him gently down and summoned help. After that all was like a
horrible dream to Evadne. She was dimly conscious that friends came with
ready offers of assistance, and that Barbadoes' best physicians were
unremitting in their efforts to stop the hemorrhage; while she stood
like a statue beside her father's bed. She was absolutely still. When at
last the hemorrhage was checked the exhaustion was terrible. Evadne
longed to throw herself beside him and pillow the dear head upon her
bosom, but Dr. Danvers had whispered,--

"A sudden sound may start the hemorrhage again,--the slightest shock is
sure to." After that, not for worlds would she have moved a finger.

The day passed and another night drew on. One of the physicians was
constantly in attendance, for the hemorrhage returned at intervals. Just
as the rose-tinted dawn looked shyly through the windows, her father
spoke, and Evadne bent her head to catch the faint tone of the voice
which sounded s
o far away.

"Vad, darling, I have made an awful mistake! I thought everything a
sham. I know better now. Make it the business of your life, little Vad,
to find Jesus Christ."

Again the red stream stained his lips, and Dr. Danvers came swiftly
forward, but Lenox Hildreth was forever beyond all need of human care.

 * * * * *

A week passed, and day after day Evadne sat by her window, speaking no
word. Outdoors the fountain still sparkled in the sunshine and the birds
sang, but for her the foundations of life had been shaken to their
center. Her friends tried in vain to break up her unnatural calm.

"If you would only have a good cry, Evadne," Geoffrey Chittenden said
at last, "you would feel better, dear. That is what all girls do, you
know."

She turned upon him a pair of solemn eyes, out of which the merry
sparkle had faded. "Will crying give me back my father?"

"Why, no, dear. Of course I didn't mean that. But these things are bound
to happen to us all, sooner or later, you know. It is the rule of life."

"'The law of progression,'" she said with a dreary laugh. "I wish the
world would stop for good!"

When the clergyman came she met him quietly, and he found himself not a
little disconcerted by the steady gaze of the mournful grey eyes. He was
not accustomed to dealing with such wordless grief, and he found his
favorite phrases sadly inadequate to the occasion. There was an awkward
pause.

"Dr. Danvers says your father told him some time ago that, in the event
of his death, he wished you to make your home with your uncle in
America?" he said at length.

Evadne bowed.

"Well, my dear young lady, you will find it in all respects a most
desirable home, I feel confident. Judge Hildreth holds a position of
great trust in the church, and is universally esteemed as a Christian
gentleman of sterling character."

The grey eyes were lifted to his face.

"Shall I find Jesus Christ there?"

"Jesus Christ?" The clergyman echoed her words with a start. "I beg your
pardon, my dear. The Lord sitteth upon his throne in the 
heavens. We
must approach him reverently, with humble fear."

"That seems a long way off," said Evadne in a disappointed tone. "There
must be some mistake. My father told me to make it the business of my
life to find him."

"Your father, my dear! Oh, ah, ahem!"

An indignant flash leaped into the grey eyes. Evadne rose and faced him.
"You must excuse me, sir," she said quietly. Then she left the room.

And the tears, which all the kindly sympathy had failed to bring her, at
the first breath of censure fell about her like a flood.

CHAPTER III.

Judge Hildreth sat with his family at dinner in the spacious dining-room
of one of the finest houses in Marlborough. He was a handsome man, with
a stateliness of manner attributable in part to the deferential homage
which Marlborough paid to his opinion in all matters of importance. His
wife, tall and queenly, sat opposite him. Two daughters and a son
completed the family group. Louis Hildreth had his father's dark blue
eyes and regular features, but there were weak lines about the mouth
which betokened a lack of purpose, and the expression of his face was
marred by a cynical smile which was fast becoming habitual with him.
Isabelle, the eldest, was tall and fair, except for a chill hauteur
which set strangely upon one so young, while her firmly set lips
betokened the existence of a strong will which completely dominated her
less self-reliant sister. Marion Hildreth was just Evadne's age, with a
pink and white beauty and soft eyes which turned deprecatingly at
intervals towards Isabelle, as though to ask pardon for imaginary
solecisms against Miss Hildreth's code of etiquette.

The covers were being changed for the second course when a servant
entered and approached the Judge, bearing a cablegram upon a silver
salver. He ran his eyes hastily over its contents, then he leaned back
heavily against his chair, while an expression of genuine sorrow settled
down upon his face.

"Your Uncle Lenox is dead," he said briefly, as the girls plied him with
questions.

"Dead!" Mrs. Hild
reth's voice broke the hush which had fallen in the
room. "Why, Lawrence, this is very sudden! We have looked upon Lenox as
being perfectly well."

"It is not safe to count anyone well, Kate, who carries such a lurking
serpent in his bosom. Only forty-three! Just in his prime. Poor Len!"
The Judge leaned his head upon his hand, while his thoughts were busy
with memories of the gay young brother who had filled the old homestead
with his merry nonsense.

"And what will become of Evadne?" Again Mrs. Hildreth's voice broke the
silence.

"Evadne?" the Judge looked full in his wife's face. "Why, my dear, there
is only one thing to be done. I shall cable immediately to have her come
to us." He rose from the table, his dinner all untasted, and left the
room.

Louis was the first to speak. "A Barbadoes cousin. How will you like
having such a novelty as that, Sis, to introduce among your
acquaintance?" He bowed lazily to Mrs. Hildreth. "Let me congratulate
you, lady mother. You will have the pleasure of floating another bud
into blossom upon the bosom of society."

"I do not see any room for congratulation, Louis," Mrs. Hildreth said
discontentedly. "It is a dreadful responsibility. One does not know what
the child may be like."

"Hardly a child, mamma," pouted Marion. "Evadne must be as old as I."

"If that is so, Sis, she must have the wisdom of Methusaleh!" and Louis
looked at his sister with one of his mocking smiles. "At any rate she
will afford scope for your powers of training, Isabelle. It must be
depressing to have to waste your eloquence upon an audience of one."

Isabelle tossed her head. "I am not anxious for the opportunity," she
said coldly. "Likely the child will be a perfect heathen after running
wild among savages all her life."

Louis whistled. "A little less Grundy and a little more geography would
be to your advantage, Isabelle! Barbadoes happens to be the creme de la
creme of the British Indies. I would not advise you to display your
ignorance before Evadne, or your future lecturettes on the
convention
alities may prove lacking in vital force."

"Why, Isabelle, my dear, you must be dreaming!" and her mother looked
annoyed. "Don't let your father hear you say such a thing, I beg of you!
When he visited Barbadoes he was delighted, and he thought Evadne's
mother one of the most charming women he had ever met. If she had lived
of course Evadne would be all right, but she has been left entirely to
her father's guidance, and he had such peculiar ideas."

"When, did she die, mamma?" asked Marion.

"I am sure I cannot remember. Six or seven years ago it must have been.
But we rarely heard from them. Your Uncle Lenox was always a wretched
correspondent, and since his wife's death he has hardly written at all."

"The house of Hildreth cannot claim to be well posted in the matter of
blood relations," said Louis carelessly, as he helped himself to olives.

 * * * * *

Upon the deck of one of the Ocean Greyhounds a promiscuous crowd was
gathered. Returning tourists in all the glory of field glasses and tweed
suits; British officers going home on furlough from the different
outposts where they were stationed; merchants from the rich markets of
the far East; picturesque foreigners in national costume; and a bishop
who paced the deck with a dignity becoming his ecclesiastical rank.
There was a continuous hum of conversation, mingled with intermittent
ripples of laughter from the different groups which were scattered about
the deck. Among the exceptions to the general sociability were the
bishop, still pacing up and down with his hands clasped behind him, and
a young girl who sat looking far out over the waves, utterly heedless of
the noise and confusion around her.

She was absolutely alone. The gentleman under whose care she was
traveling made a point of escorting her to meals, after which he
invariably secured her a comfortable deck chair, supplied her liberally
with rugs and books, and then retired to the smoking-room, with the
serene consciousness of duty well performed; and Evadne Hildreth was
thankful to be left in peace
. She was no longer the buoyant, merry girl.
Her vitality seemed crushed. Hour after hour she sat motionless, her
hands folded listlessly in her lap, looking out over the dancing waves.
She had caught the last glimpse of her beloved island in a grey stupor.
Everything was gone,--father and home and friends,--nothing that
happened could matter now,--but, oh, the dreary, dreary years! Did the
sun shine in far-away New England, and could the water be as blue as her
dear Atlantic, with the gay ripple on its bosom and the music of its
waves? She looked at the tender sky, as on the far horizon it bent low
to kiss the face of the mysterious mighty ocean which stretched "a sea
without a shore." That was like her life now. All the beauty ended, yet
stretching on and on and on. And she must keep pace with it, against her
will. And there was no one to care. She was all alone! No, there was
Jesus Christ!

She started to find that the Bishop's lady was speaking to her. Evadne
recognized her, for she sat at the next table, and several times she had
stood aside to let her pass to her seat. Something about the solitary,
pathetic little figure, the hopeless face and mournful grey eyes, had
won the compassion of the good lady, for she was a kindly soul.

"My dear, you have a great sorrow?" she said gently. "I hope you have
the consolations of our holy religion to help you bear it."

Evadne turned towards her eagerly. Her husband was the head of the
church. Surely _she_ would know.

"Can you help me to find him?" she asked abruptly.

"Find whom, my dear? Have you a friend among the passengers?"

"Jesus Christ."

"Oh!" The Bishop's lady sat back with the suddenness of the shock, "Are
you in earnest, my dear?" she asked with a tinge of severity in her
tone. "This is a very serious question, but, if you really mean it, I
will lend you my Prayer Book."

Evadne smiled drearily. "Oh, yes, I am terribly in earnest. My father
said I was to make it the business of my life."

"Oh, ah, yes, to be sure," said the lady a trifle absently. "That 
is
very proper. Christianity should be the great purpose of our life."

"I do not want Christianity," said Evadne impatiently, "I want Christ."

"My dear, you shock me! The eternal verities of our holy religion must
ever be--"

"Do you believe in him?" asked Evadne, interrupting her.

"Believe in him? whom do you mean?"

"Jesus Christ."

Aghast, the Bishop's lady crossed herself and began repeating the
Apostles' Creed.

"That makes him seem so far away," said Evadne sadly. "I do not want him
in heaven if I have to live upon earth. Have _you_ found him?" she asked
eagerly. "Are you on intimate terms with him? Is he your friend?"

The Bishop's lady gasped for breath. That she, a member of the Church of
the Holy Communion of All Saints should be interrogated in such a
fashion as this! "I think you do not quite understand," she said coldly.
"I will lend you a treatise on Church Doctrine. You had better study
that."

"Charlotte," said her husband when she reached her stateroom, "I have
arrived at an important decision this afternoon. I have finally
concluded to take the Socinian Heresy as my theme for the noon lectures.
The subject will admit of elaborate treatment and afford ample scope for
scholarship."

"Heresy!" echoed his wife, who had not yet recovered her equanimity;
"why, Bertram, I have just been talking to a young person who asked me
if I was on intimate terms with Jesus Christ!"

"Ah, yes," said the Bishop absently, "the radical tendencies of the
present day are to be deplored. Have you seen that my vestments are in
order, Charlotte? I shall hold Divine service on board to-morrow."

In a neighboring stateroom a lonely soul, bewildered and despairing,
struggled through the darkness towards the light.

 * * * * *

The last snow of the winter lay in soft beauty upon the streets of
Marlborough as Evadne's train drew into the railway station. Instantly
all was bustle and confusion throughout the cars. Evadne shrank back in
her seat and waited. Instinctively she felt that for her there would be
no joyous welcome.
 Inexpressibly dreary as the journey had been she was
sorry it was at an end. An overwhelming embarrassment of shyness seized
upon her, and the chill desolation of loneliness seemed to shut down
about her like a cloud.

A young man sauntered past her with his hands in his pockets. When he
reached the end of the car he turned and surveyed the passengers
leisurely, then he came back to her seat. He lifted his hat with lazy
politeness.

"Miss Hildreth, I believe?"

Evadne bowed. He shook hands coolly.

"I have the honor of introducing myself as your cousin Louis."

He made no attempt to give her a warmer greeting, and Evadne was glad,
but how dreary it was!

Louis led the way out of the station to where a pair of magnificent
horses stood, tossing their regal heads impatiently. A coachman
stood beside them, clad in fur.

"Pompey," he said, "this is Miss Evadne Hildreth from Barbadoes."

The man bent his head low over the little hand which was instantly
stretched out to him. "I'se very glad to see Miss 'Vadney," he said with
simple fervor. "I was powerful fond of Mass Lennux;" and Evadne felt she
had received her warmest welcome.

She nestled down among the soft robes of the sleigh while the silver
bells rang merrily through the frosty air. It was all so new and
strange. A leaden weight seemed to be settling down upon her heart and
she felt as if she were choking, but she threw it off. She dared not let
herself think. She began to talk rapidly.

"What splendid horses you have! Surely they must be thoroughbreds? No
ordinary horses could ever hold their heads like that."

Louis nodded. "You have a quick eye," he said approvingly. "Most girls
would not know a thoroughbred from a draught horse. You have hit upon
the surest way to get into my father's good graces. His horses are his
hobby."

"What are their names?"

"Brutus and Caesar. The Judge is nothing if not classical."

As they mounted the front steps the faint notes of a guitar sounded from
the front room.

"Confound Isabelle and her eternal twanging!" muttered Loui
s, as he
fumbled for his latch-key. "It would be a more orthodox welcome if you
found your relations waiting for you with open arms, but the Hildreth
family is not given to gush. Isabelle will tell you it is not good form.
So we keep our emotions hermetically sealed and stowed away under
decorous lock and key, polite society having found them inconvenient
things to handle, partaking of the nature of nitroglycerine, you know,
and liable to spontaneous combustion."

He opened the door as he spoke and Evadne followed him into the hall.
She shivered, although a warm breath of heated air fanned her cheek. The
atmosphere was chilly.

Marion, hurried forward to greet her, followed more leisurely by
Isabelle and her mother, who touched her lips lightly to her forehead.

"I hope you have had a pleasant journey, my dear, although you must
find our climate rather stormy. I think you might as well let the girls
take you at once to your room and then we will have dinner."

"Where is the Judge?" inquired Louis.

"Detained again at the office. He has just telephoned not to wait for
him. He is killing himself with overwork."

To Evadne the dinner seemed interminable and she found herself
contrasting the stiff formality with the genial hospitality of her
father's table. She saw again the softly lighted room with its open
windows through which the flowers peeped, and heard his gay badinage and
his low, sweet laugh. Could she be the same Evadne, or was it all a
dream?

Isabelle stood beside her as she began to prepare for the night. She
wished she would go away. The burden of loneliness grew every moment
more intolerable. Suddenly she turned towards her cousin and cried in
desperation,--

"Can _you_ tell me where I shall find Jesus Christ?"

Isabelle started. "My goodness, Evadne, what a strange question! You
took my breath away."

"Is it a strange question?" she asked wistfully. "Everyone seems to
think so, and yet--my father said I was to make it the business of my
life to find him."

"Your father!" cried Isabelle. "Why Uncle Len
ox was an----"

Instantly a pair of small hands were held like a vice against her lips.
Isabelle threw them off angrily.

"You are polite, I must say! Is this a specimen of West Indian manners?"

"You were going to say something I could not hear," said Evadne quietly,
"there was nothing else to do."

Isabelle left the room, and, returning, threw a book carelessly upon the
table. "You had better study that," she said. "It will answer your
questions better than I can."

"I told you she was a heathen!" she exclaimed, as she rejoined her
mother in the sitting-room; "but I did not know that I should have to
turn missionary the first night and give her a Bible!"

Upstairs Evadne buried her face among the pillows and the aching heart
burst its bonds in one long quivering cry of pain.

"Dearest!"

CHAPTER IV.

A day full of light--warm and brilliant. The sun flooding the wide
fields of timothy and clover and fresh young grain with glory; falling
with a soft radiance upon the comfortable mansion of the master of
Hollywood Farm, with its spacious barns and long stretches of stabling,
and throwing loving glances among the leaves of its deep belt of
woodland where the river sparkled and soft rugs of moss spread their
rich luxuriance over an aesthetic carpet of resinous pine needles.

Near the limits of Hollywood the forest made a sudden curve to the
right, and the river, turned from its course, rushed, laughing and
eager, over a ridge of rocks which tossed it in the air in sheets of
silver spray.

Standing there, leaning upon a gun, a boy of about seventeen looked long
at a squirrel whose mangled body was staining the emerald beauty of the
moss with crimson. His face was earnest and troubled, while the
expression of sorrowful contempt which swept over it, made him seem
older than he was. It was a strong face, with deep-set, thoughtful eyes
which lit up wondrously when he was interested or pleased. His mouth was
sensitive but his chin was firm and his brown hair fell in soft waves
over a broad, full brow. People always took i
t for granted that John
Randolph would be as good as his word. They never reasoned about it.
They simply expected it of him.

He began to speak, and his voice fell clear and distinct through the
silence.

"And you call this sport?" There was no answer save the soft gurgle of
the river as it splashed merrily over the stones.

"You are a brute, John Randolph!" And the wind sighed a plaintive echo
among the trees.

He was silent while the words which he had read six weeks before and
which had been ringing a ceaseless refrain in his heart ever since,
obtruded themselves upon his memory.

"It is the privilege of everyone to become an exact copy of Jesus
Christ."

"Well, John Randolph, can you picture to yourself Jesus Christ shooting
a squirrel for sport?" He tossed aside the weapon he had been leaning
upon with a gesture of disgust, and, folding his arms, looked up at the
cloud-flecked sky.

"Are you there, Jesus Christ?" he asked wistfully. "Are you looking
down on this poor old world, and what do you think of it all? Men made
in God's image finding their highest enjoyment in slaughtering his
creatures. Game Preserves where they can do it in luxurious leisure; fox
hunts with their pack of hunters and hounds in full cry after one poor
defenceless fox, and battle-fields where they tear each other limb from
limb with Gatling gun and shells; and yet we call ourselves honorable
gentlemen, and talk of the delights of the chase and the glories of war!
Pshaw! what a mockery it is."

Stooping suddenly he laid the squirrel upon his open palm and gently
stroked the long, silky fur. He lifted the tiny paws with their perfect
equipment for service and looked remorsefully at the eyes whose light
was dimmed, and the mouth which had forever ceased its merry chatter. A
great tenderness sprang up in his heart toward all living things and,
lifting his right hand to heaven, he exclaimed, "Poor little squirrel, I
cannot give you back your happy life, but, I will never take another!"

Then he knelt, and scooping out a grave, laid the lit
tle creature to
rest at the foot of a tree in whose trunk the remnant of its winter
store of nuts was carefully garnered. When at length he turned to
leave the spot the tiny grave was marked by a pine slab, on which was
pencilled,

 "Here lies the germ of a resolve.
 July 17th, 18--"

He walked slowly along the fragrant wood-path, looking thoughtfully at
the shadows as they played hide and seek upon the moss, while through
the trees he caught glimpses of the sparkling river which sang as it
rolled along.

When he reached the border of the woodland he stood still and his eyes
swept over the landscape. Hollywood was the finest stock farm in the
country. After his father's death he had come, a little lad, to live
with Mr. Hawthorne, and every year which had elapsed since then made it
grow more dear. He loved its rolling meadows, its breezy pastures and
its fragrant orchards. Its beautifully kept grounds and outbuildings
appealed to his innate sense of the fitness of things, while its air of
abundant comfort made it difficult to realize that the world was full of
hunger and woe. He loved the green road where the wild roses blushed and
the honeysuckle drooped its fragrant petals, but most of all he loved
the graceful horses and sleek cows which just now were grazing in the
fields on either side; and the shy creatures, with the subtle instinct
by which all animals test the quality of human friendship, took him into
their confidence and came gladly at his call and did his bidding.

When he reached the end of the road he stopped again, and, leaning
against the fence adjoining the broad gate which led to the house, gave
a low whistle. A thoroughbred Jersey, feeding some distance away, lifted
her head and listened. Again he whistled, and with soft, slow tread the
cow came towards him and rubbed her nose against his arm. He took her
head between his hands, her clover-laden breath fanning his cheeks, and
looked at the dark muzzle and the large eyes, almost human in their
tenderness.

"Well, Primrose, old lady, you're as dain
ty as your namesake, and as
sweet. Ah, Sylph, you beauty!" he continued, as a calf like a young fawn
approached the gate, "you can't rest away from your mammy, can you?
Primrose, have you any aspirations, or are you content simply to eat and
drink? You have a good time of it now, but what if you were kicked and
cuffed and starved? You are sensitive, for I saw you shrink and shiver
when Bill Wright,--the scoundrel!--dared to strike you. He'll never do
it again, Prim! Have you the taste of an epicure for the juicy grass
blades and the clover when it is young,--do you love to hear the birds
sing and the brook murmur, and do you enjoy living under the trees and
watching the clouds chase the sunbeams as you chew your cud? Do you
wonder why the cold winter comes and you have to be shut up in a stall
with a different kind of fodder? Do you ever wonder who gave you life
and what you are meant to do with it? How I wish you could talk, old
lady!"

He vaulted over the gate, and whistling to a fine collie who came
bounding to meet him, walked slowly on towards the stables.

"Hulloa, John!" and a boy about two years his junior threw himself off a
horse reeking with foam. "Rub Sultan down a bit like a good fellow.
There'll be the worst kind of a row if the governor sees him in this
pickle."

John Randolph looked indignantly at the handsome horse, as he stood with
drooping head and wide distended nostrils, while the white foam dripped
over his delicate legs.

"Serve you right if there were!" and his voice was full of scorn.
"You're about as fit to handle horseflesh as an Esquimaux."

"Oh, pish! You're a regular old grandmother, John. There's nothing to
make such a row about." And Reginald Hawthorne turned upon his heel.

John threw off coat and vest, and, rolling up his sleeves, led the
exhausted horse to the currying ground. Reginald followed slowly, his
hands in his pockets.

"How did you get him into such a mess?" he asked shortly.

"I don't know, I didn't do anything to him," and Reginald kicked the
gravel discontentedly. "
I believe he's getting lazy."

"Sultan lazy!" and John laughed incredulously. "That's a good joke! Why,
he is the freest horse on the place!"

"Well, I don't know how else to explain it. He's been on the go pretty
steadily, but what's a horse good for? Thursday afternoon we had our
cross-country run and the ground was horribly stiff. I thought he had
sprained his off foreleg for he limped a good deal on the home stretch,
but he seemed to limber up all right the last few miles. I was sorry not
to let him rest yesterday; would have put him in better trim I suppose
for to-day's twenty mile pull,--but Cartwright and Peterson wanted to
make up a tandem, and when they asked for Sultan I didn't like to
refuse. They are heavy swells, and you know father wants me to get in
with that lot. But that shouldn't have hurt him. They only went as far
as Brighton. What's fifteen miles to a horse!"

"Fifteen miles means thirty to a horse when he has to travel back the
same road," said John drily; "and your heavy swells take the toll out of
horseflesh quicker than a London cabby."

"Why, John, what has come to you? You're the last fellow in the world to
want me to be churlish."

"That's true, Rege,--but I don't want them to <DW36> you as they have
poor Sultan. What kind of fellows are they?"

"Oh, not a bad sort," said Reginald carelessly. "Lots of the needful,
you know, and free with it. Not very fond of the grind, but always up to
date when there are any good times going. What do you suppose put Sultan
in such a lather, John? I was so afraid father would catch me that I
came across the fields, and it was just as much as he could do to take
the last fence. I made sure he was going to tumble."

"Well for you he didn't," and John smoothed the delicate limbs with his
firm hand, "these knees are too pretty for a scar. Go into the vet room,
Rege, and bring me out a roll of bandage."

"Hulloa! That will give me away to the governor with a vengeance! What
are you going to bandage him for?"

"He is badly strained, and if I don't his legs w
ill be all puffed by the
morning. It will be lucky if it is nothing worse. He looks to me as if
he was in for a touch of distemper, but I'll give him a powder and
perhaps we can stave it off."

Reginald brought the bandage and then stood moodily striking at a beetle
with his riding whip. He was turning away when a hand with a grip of
steel was laid on his shoulder and he was forced back to where the
beetle lay, a shapeless mass of quivering agony, while a low stern voice
exclaimed,--

"Finish your work! Even the cannibals do that."

Reginald wrenched himself free. "Pshaw!" he said contemptuously, "it's
only a beetle." But he did as he was told.

Then he stood silently watching as with swift skilfulness John swathed
the horse's limbs in flannel. "I guess Sultan misses you, John. Over at
the college livery their fingers are all thumbs."

"Poor Sultan!" was all John's answer, as he led the horse into a large
paddock thickly strewn with fresh straw.

A night full of stars--silent and sweet. John Randolph leaned on the
broad gate which opened into the green road where he had lingered in the
afternoon. The thoughts which surged through his brain made sleep
impossible, and so, lighting his bull's-eye, he had gone to the stables
to see how Sultan was faring, and then wandered on under the mystery of
the stars.

The night was warm. A breeze heavy with perfume lifted the hair from his
brow. He heard the low breathing of the cattle as they dozed in the
fields on either side, and the soft whirr of downy plumage as the great
owl which had built its nest among the eaves of the new barn flew past
him. Suddenly a warm nose was thrust against his shoulder and, with the
assurance of a spoilt beauty, the cow laid her head upon his arm. He
lifted his other hand and stroked it gently.

"Hah, Primrose! Are you awake, old lady? What are your views of life
now, Prim? Do the shadows make it seem more weird and grand, or does
midnight lose its awesomeness when one is upon four legs?"

He looked away to where the stars were throbbing with 
tender light,
crimson and green and gold, and the words of the book which he had been
studying every leisure moment for the past six weeks swept across his
mental vision.

"'I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in
darkness, but shall have the light of life.'

"'The light of life,'" he repeated slowly. "Why, to most people life
seems all darkness! What is 'the light of life'?"

Still other words came stealing to his memory. 'I am the way, the truth,
and the life, no one cometh unto the Father, but by me.' 'Except ye
turn, and become as little children, ye shall in no wise enter into the
kingdom of heaven.' 'This is life eternal, that they should know thee
the only true God, and him whom thou didst send, even Jesus.'

A great light flooded John Randolph's soul.

"'I' and 'me,'" he whispered. "Why, it is a personality. It is Jesus
himself! He is the way to the kingdom, the truth of the kingdom and the
life of it. The kingdom of heaven, not far away in space, but set up
here and now in the hearts of men who live the life hid with Christ in
God. I see it all! Jesus Christ is the light of the life which God gives
us through his Son."

He stretched his hands up towards the glistening sky.

"Jesus Christ," he cried eagerly, "come into my life and make it light.
I take thee for my Master, my Friend. I give myself away to thee. I will
follow wherever thou dost lead. Jesus Christ, help me to grow like
thee!"

The hush of a great peace fell upon his soul, while through the
listening night an angel stooped and traced upon his brow the kingly
motto, 'Ich Dien.'

CHAPTER V.

"Don, Don, me's tumin'," and the baby of the farm, a little child with
sunny curls and laughing eyes, ran past the great barns of Hollywood.

John Randolph was swinging along the green road with a bridle over his
arm, whistling softly. He turned as the childish voice was borne to him
on the breeze. "All right, Nansie, wait for me at the gate." Then he
sprang over the fence and crossed the field to where a group of horses
were fee
ding.

The child climbed up on the gate beside a saddle which John had placed
there and waited patiently. He soon came back, leading a magnificent bay
horse, and began to adjust the saddle.

"Now, Nan, I'll give you a ride to the house. Can't go any further
to-day, for I have to cross the river."

The child shook her head confidently. "Me 'll go too, Don."

"I'm afraid not, Nan. The river is so deep, we'll have to swim for it.
That is why I chose Neptune, you see."

"Me's not 'fraid, wiv 'oo, Don."

"Better wait, Baby, till the river is low. Well, come along then," as
the wily schemer drew down her pretty lips into the aggrieved curve
which always conquered his big, soft heart. She clapped her hands with
glee, as he lifted her in front of him and started Neptune into a brisk
trot, and made a bridle for herself out of the horse's silky mane.

"Gee, gee, Nepshun. Nan loves you, dear."

When they reached the fording place John's face grew grave. The river
had risen during the night and was rushing along with turbulent
strength. There was no house within five miles. His business was
imperative. He dared not leave the child until he came back. Crouching
upon the saddle, he clasped one arm about her while he twisted his other
hand firmly in and out of the horse's mane.

"Are you afraid, Nansie?"

She twined her arms more tightly about his neck until the sunny curls
brushed his cheek.

"Me'll do anywhere, wiv 'oo, Don."

Just as the gallant horse reached the opposite bank Reginald galloped
down to the ford on his way home for Sunday.

"Upon my word, John, you're a perfect slave to that youngster! What mad
thing will you be doing next, I wonder?"

"The next thing will be to go back again," said John with a smile, while
Nan clung fast to his neck and peeped shyly through her curls at her
brother.

"Where are you off to?"

"Henderson's."

Reginald turned his horse's head. "I might as well go along. A man's a
fool to ride alone when he can have company."

John gave him a swift, comprehensive glance.

"How are things going, 
Rege? You're not looking very fit."

Reginald yawned and drew his hand across his heavy eyes. "Oh, all right.
Oyster suppers and that sort of thing are apt to make a fellow drowsy."

"Don't go too fast, Rege."

"Why not?" said Reginald carelessly. "It suits the governor, and that
book you're so fond of says children should obey their parents."

 * * * * *

"I declare, John, you're a regular algebraic puzzle!" he exclaimed later
in the day, as he stood beside John in the carpenter's shop, watching
the curling strips of wood which his plane was tossing off with sweeping
strokes. "You put all there is of you into everything you do. You take
as much pains over a plough handle as you would over a buggy!"

"Why not? God takes as much pains with a humming-bird as an elephant.
Mere size doesn't count."

"Nan loves you, Reggie," and a tiny hand was slipped shyly into her
brother's.

"All right, Magpie," he said carelessly. "You had better run home now to
mother. Your chatter makes my head ache."

The laughing lips quivered and the child turned away from him to John
and hid her face against his knee. He lifted her up on the bench beside
him and gave her a handful of shavings to play with.

"I don't see how you accomplish anything with that child everlastingly
under your feet!" Reginald continued, "yet you do two men's work and
seem to love it into the bargain. I'm sure if I had to cooper up all the
things on the farm as you do, I should loathe the very sight of tools."

"I _do_ love it, Rege. Jesus Christ was a carpenter, you know. I get
very near to him out here."

"Jesus Christ!" echoed Reginald with a puzzled stare. "What is coming
to you, John?"

"It has come, Rege," John said with a great light in his face. "I have
found my Master."

"Upon my word, John, you are the queerest fellow! What next, I wonder?"

"The next thing, Rege," and John laid his hand affectionately upon his
friend's shoulder, "is for you to find him too."

"So, you're going to turn preacher, John? You'll find me a hard subject.
A short life and a mer
ry one is what I am going in for. I've no turn for
Christianity."

"It pays, Rege."

"Don't believe it. How can life be worth living when you're drivelling
psalm tunes all day long?"

John laughed, and there was a new note of gladness in his voice which
Reginald was quick to notice. "I haven't begun to drivel yet, Rege; and
life counts for a good deal more when a man has an object than when he
is living just to please himself."

"And who should a man please but himself, I should like to know?"

"Jesus Christ."

 * * * * *

"Upon my word!" said Reginald some weeks later, as he came upon John
sitting astride a cobbler's bench busily mending a pair of shoes, while
Nan looked on admiringly. "Do you learn a new trade every month?"

John laughed quietly. "I took up this one because there are so many
repairs always needed on the harness, and your father thinks all talent
should be utilized."

There was a quizzical look about his mouth as he spoke. Reginald caught
the look and answered hotly.

"The governor ought to be ashamed of himself! Why don't you strike,
John?"

"Why should I? Knowledge is power, Rege."

"Knowledge of shoemaking!" said Reginald contemptuously. "It won't add
to your strength much, John."

"Never can tell," said John sententiously. "You remember that lame
fellow saved a battle for us by knowing how to shoe the general's
horse."

"Next thing you'll be going in for a blacksmith's diploma!"

"I'm thinking of it," said John coolly. "That fellow at the Forks has no
more sense than a hen. He pared so much off Neptune's hoof last week
that he has been limping ever since. I had to take him this morning and
have the shoes removed."

"I wish you'd do some shirking, John, like the rest of us."

"Jesus Christ never shirked, Rege."

"Pshaw! You're so ridiculous!" and Reginald walked discontentedly away.

"Here, John, John, I say," he called, when the time came for him to
return to College, "go catch and saddle Sultan for me. You're so fond of
work, you might as well have two masters. Be quick now, for I'm in the

mischief of a hurry."

John's face flushed. This boy was younger than himself, and his father
had been Mr. Hawthorne's friend.

"Do you hear what I say, John?" demanded Reginald. "You're only here as
a servant any way, and I'll be master some day, so you might as well
learn to obey me now."

John's brow cleared, while the words echoed in his heart with a glad
refrain,--

"A servant of Jesus Christ," and "The Lord's servant must not strive,
but be gentle towards all ... forbearing." After all, life was a matter
between himself and the Lord Jesus. What could Reginald's taunts affect
him now?

"All right," he said quietly, and started for the field.

"I declare!" muttered Reginald, as he watched the tall, lithe form
cross the field with springing step, "you might as well try to make the
fellow mad now, as to storm Gibraltar! What has come to him?"

"Here you are, Sir Reginald," said John good-humoredly, as he led the
freshly groomed horse to the riding-block.

Reginald's voice choked. "Shake hands, John," he said huskily. "I am a
brute! There must be something in this new fad of yours after all. If
you had spoken to me as I did to you just now, I should have knocked you
down."

He rode on for a mile or two in moody silence, then he gave his
shoulders an impatient shrug.

"I'd like to know what it is about John Randolph that makes me feel so
small! I have good times and he is always on the grind. I have all the
money I can spend and he has nothing but the pittance the governor gives
him, and yet he is three times the better fellow of the two. I envy him
his spunk and go. He comes to everything as fresh as a two-year old, and
he works everything for all there is in it. To see him climbing that
hill yesterday, with the youngster on his shoulder, actually made me
feel as if climbing hills was the jolliest thing in life. And it's so
with everything he does. Confound it! I don't see why I can't get the
same comfort out of things. I don't see where the fellow gets his vim.
If I worked as hard as he does, I'd be ready to tu
mble into bed instead
of pegging away at Latin and Mathematics. I'll have to put on a spurt in
self-defence or he'll be tripping me up with his questions. He's got the
longest head of anyone I know. The idea of the governor daring to set
such a fellow as that to cobble shoes!"

"It's queer about the governor," he continued after a pause. "He's
always ready to shell out when I ask him for money, but he keeps poor
John with his nose to the grindstone all the year round. I suppose he
expects me to pay him in glory. He's set his heart on my being a
judge,--Judge Hawthorne of Hollywood. Sounds euphonious, and I verily
believe the old gentleman has begun to roll it like a sweet morsel under
his tongue. Can't say I have a special aptitude for the profession, and
certainly the brains are not in evidence, but I suppose the governor
thinks money will take their place. He has found it takes the place of
most things.

"Sultan, old boy, we seem down on our luck this morning. We had better
take a speeder to raise our spirits. It is hardly the thing for Judge
Hawthorne of Hollywood to envy John Randolph his humdrum life of mending
rakes and shoes," and he urged his horse into a mad gallop.

 * * * * *

"I believe I'd like to be poor and work, John," he exclaimed one day.
"It gets tiresome having everything laid ready to your hand, with
nothing to do but take it. Life must be full of snap when you have to
dash your will up against old Dame Fortune and wrest what you want out
of her miserly clutches."

"Yes," said John simply, "Jesus Christ was poor."

"Look here, John. If you don't stop that nonsense, people will be
dubbing you a crank."

"I am ready!" he cried, and there was a strange, exulting ring in his
voice. "They called him mad, you know."

CHAPTER VI.

Evadne found herself one morning in Judge Hildreth's roomy coach-house,
watching Pompey, as he skilfully groomed her uncle's pets.

It had been decided that after the summer holidays, she should become a
member of the fashionable school which Isabelle and Marion attended. 
In
the meantime she was left almost entirely to her own devices. Her uncle
was away all day, Louis at College, and her aunt busy with social
duties. Her cousins had their own particular friends, who were not slow
to vote the silent girl with the mournful grey eyes, full of dumb
questioning, a bore; while Evadne, accustomed to being her father's
companion in all his scientific researches, found their vapid chatter
wearisome in the extreme.

Horses were a passion with her, and she noted with pleased interest
Pompey's deft manipulations. She stood for a long time in silence.
Pompey had saluted her respectfully then kept on steadily with his work.
Dexterously he swept the curry-comb over the shining coats and then
drew it through the brush in his left hand with a curious vocal
accompaniment, something between a long-drawn whistle and a sigh, and
the horses laid their heads against his shoulder affectionately and
looked wonderingly at the stranger out of their large, bright eyes.

"Did you really know my father?" she asked at length.

"Laws, yes, Missy!" and Pompey's honest black face grew tender with
sympathy. "Mass Lennux stayed with the Jedge 'fore he went ter
Barbadoes, an' he spen' powerful sight of his time out here wid me an'
de horses. He wuz allers del'cut,--warn't able ter do nothin' in this
yere climate,--but he bed sech a sperit! He wouldn't ever let folks know
when he wuz a sufferin'. He use ter call me 'Pompous,'" and Pompey
chuckled softly. "He say when I git inter my fur coat I look as gran' on
de box as de Jedge do inside; an' one day he braided de horses' manes
inter a hunderd tails an' tied 'em wid yaller ribbun, 'cause he said de
crimps wuz in de fashun an' yaller wuz de Jedge's 'lecshun color. De
Jedge wuz powerful angry. He don't like no sech tricks wid his horses.
But, laws, he couldn't keep angry wid Mass Lennux! He jes' stood wid
his hans on his sides an' larf an' larf, till de Jedge he hev ter larf
too, an' he call him a graceless scamp, an' say he send him ter
Coventry, an' Mass Lennux he sa
y 'all right ef de Jedge go 'long too,
an' take de horses, he couldn't do widout dem nohow.'"

"Were these the horses my father used to ride?"

"Laws, no, Missy. Dey wuz ez black ez night. Mass Lennux use ter call
'em Egyp an' Erybus."

Pompey's face softened.

"When my leetle gal died he jes' put his han' on my shoulder an' sez
he,--'Pompous, you jes' go home an' cheer up de Missis, yer don't hev no
call to worry 'bout de horses.' An' he tuk care of dem jes' as ef he'd
ben a coachman. We'll never fergit it, Dyce an' me."

Evadne's eyes shone. That was just like her father!

"'Specs little Miss is powerful lonesum 'thout Mass Lennux?"

The soft voice was full of a genuine regret. Evadne sank down on a bench
which stood near by and burst into tears.

"Oh, Pompey, I wish I could die!"

"'Specs little Miss hez no call ter wish dat," said Pompey gently.
"'Specs de Lord Jesus wants her to live fer him."

Evadne opened her eyes in wonder.

"'The Lord Jesus,'" she repeated. "Why, Pompey, do you know him?"

A great joy transfigured the black face.

"He is my Frien'," he said simply.

Evadne leaned forward eagerly. "Oh, Pompey, if that is true, then you
can help me find him."

Pompey smiled joyously. "Miss 'Vadney don't need ter go far away fer
dat. He is right here."

"Here!" echoed Evadne faintly.

"Lo, I am wid you all de days'" Pompey repeated softly. "De Lord Jesus
don't leave no gaps in his promises, Miss 'Vadney. He's allers wid me
wherever I is workin', an' when I is up on my box a drivin' troo de
streets, he's dere. He's wid me continuous. Dere's nuthin can seprate
Pompey from de Lord," he added with a sweet reverence.

"How can you be so sure?" she asked wistfully.

"I hez his word, Missy. You allers b'lieved your father? 'I will not
leave you orphuns, I will cum ter you.' I 'specs dat verse is meant
speshully fer you, Miss 'Vadney."

"But we can't see him," said Evadne.

"Only wid de eye of faith, Missy. We trusts our friens in de dark. You
didn't need ter see your father ter know he wuz in de house?"

"Oh, no!
" Evadne's voice trembled.

"It's jes' de same wid my Father, Miss 'Vadney."

"How can you call God so, Pompey?"

A great sweetness came over the homely face.

"'Cause he hez sent his Sperit inter my heart, an' poor black Pompey can
look up inter de shinin of his face an' say 'my Father,' 'cause I'se
hidden away in his Son. I'se a little branch abidin' in de great Vine.
I'se one wid de Lord Jesus."

"I don't know where to look for him!" Evadne cried disconsolately.

Pompey laid aside his curry-comb and brush and folded his toil-worn
hands.

"Lord Jesus," he said quietly, "here is thy little lamb. She's out in de
dark mountain, an' she's lonesum an' hungry, an' de col' rain of sorrow
is beatin' on her head. Lord, thou is de good Shepherd. Let her hear thy
voice a callin' her. Carry this little lamb in thy bosom an' giv her de
joy of thy love."

 * * * * *

Judge Hildreth sat in his library far into the night. He was reading for
the twentieth time the letter which Evadne had placed in his hands the
morning after her arrival, and as he read, he frowned.

"It is ridiculous, absurd!" he exclaimed impatiently. "Just of a piece
with all of Len's quixotic theories. By what possible chance could a
child of that age know how to manage money? She would make ducks and
drakes of the whole business in less than a year!"

A letter addressed to Evadne lay upon the pile of age-worn papers in an
open drawer at his side.

"I enclose herewith a letter to Evadne," his brother had written,
"giving full and minute explanations as to her best course in the
matter. These she will follow implicitly, under your supervision, and I
feel confident the result will be a well-developed character along the
lines on which women, through no fault of their own, are so lamentably
deficient, namely, the proper conduct of business and management of
money."

Judge Hildreth looked again at the envelope with its clear, bold
address. "That is not the handwriting of a fool," he muttered. "I wish I
could make up my mind what to do."

Through the solemn hush 
of midnight his good and evil angels contended
for his soul. In a strange silence he listened to their voices, the one
insidious, tempting, the other urging him to take the upright course.
Had his eyes not been holden he would have seen them, the one
dark-browed, malignant, clothed in shadows, the other robed in light;
while other angels hovered near and looked on pityingly. The white-robed
angel spoke first.

"It is not a question to be decided by your judgment. There is no other
course left open to you."

Mockingly the other answered. "It is a most unprecedented proceeding.
You should have been appointed her guardian, with sole control."

"It is your brother's last will and testament."

"Some wills are made to be broken. This one is against sound reason."

"It is the only honorable thing to do."

"It is unnecessary. The child need not know, and, if she did, would
thank you for saving her from care."

"It is your brother's money. He had a right to do as he will with his
own."

"If he had known to what straits this year's speculations have brought
you, he would be glad to give you a lift. If you do not have money now
what are you going to do? This has come just in time, for you know your
credit is already strained to its utmost." "Your niece will be anxious
to have your advice as to profitable investments. You can borrow the
money from her."

"That would be awkward, in case the bottom fell out of the mine. A
little capital in hand would give you a chance to water the Panhattan
stock and develop a new lead in the Silverwing."

"If you use money that does not belong to you, you will be a thief!"

"If you do not use it, you will be a pauper. You have paper out now to
five times the amount of your income. This is an interposition of
Providence to save you from ruin."

"What right had you to put yourself in the way of ruin?"

"You did it to advance the interests of your family. The Bible says, 'If
any provide not for his own, especially his own kindred, he ... is worse
than an infidel.'[Footnote: Marginal rendering A.
 V.]"

"If you do this thing you will be dishonored in the sight of God."

"If you do not save yourself from this temporary embarrassment, you will
be disgraced in the eyes of the world. You owe it to your position in
society, and the church, to keep above the waves." The listening
spirits heard a low, malicious laugh of triumph and the white-robed
angel turned sadly away.

Judge Hildreth had thrust Evadne's letter, with his own, far under the
pile of papers, and double-locked the drawer!

 * * * * *

Above the coach-house was a large room where Pompey kept a store of hay
and grain, and there Evadne often found herself ensconced with
Isabelle's Bible, during the long mornings when she was left to amuse
herself as best she might. The atmosphere of the house stifled her, and
Pompey had loved her father! It was scrupulously clean. Under Pompey's
regime spiders and moths found no tolerance, and a magnificent black cat
effectually frightened away the audacious rodents which were tempted to
depredations by the toothsome cereals in the great bins. In one corner
Pompey had improvised for her a luxurious couch of hay and rugs, and in
this fragrant retreat Evadne studied her strange new book. She brought
to it a mind absolutely untrammeled by creed or circumstance, and in
this virgin soil God's truth took root. Slowly the light dawned. Hers
was no shallow nature to leap to a hasty conclusion and then forsake it
for a later thought. Gradually through the darkness, as God's flowers
grow, this human flower lifted itself towards the light.

Sometimes she would sit for hours with the stately cat upon her knee,
thinking, thinking, thinking, while Pompey sang his favorite hymns about
his work and the mellow strains floated up the stairway and soothed her
lonely heart. His childlike faith became to her a tower of refuge, and
often, when bewildered by life's inconsistencies, she felt as if the
eternal realities were vanishing into mist, she was calmed and comforted
by his happy trust.

"I cannot imagine, Evadne," said Isabelle one 
evening at dinner, "what
pleasure you can find in sitting in a stable in company with a <DW64>! It
certainly shows a most depraved taste."

"Christ was born in a stable, Isabelle."

"What in the world has that to do with you?"

"I am beginning to think he has everything to do with me," answered her
cousin quietly.

"Well," said Isabelle with a toss of her head, "we are known by the
company we keep. I should imagine Pompey's curriculum of manners was not
on a very elevated plane."

"Pompey! Isabelle," said Judge Hildreth suddenly. "Why, my dear, Pompey
is a modern Socrates, bound in ebony. There is no danger to be
apprehended from him."

"Well, it is a peculiar companionship for Judge Hildreth's niece, that
is all I have to say," said Isabelle coldly, "but _chacun a son gout_."

"I read this morning in your Bible that God had chosen the base things
of the world, and things which are despised, and things which are not,
to bring to nought things that are. What does that mean, Isabelle?"

"Really, Evadne, we shall have to send you to live with Doctor Jerome!"
said her aunt, with a careless laugh. "You are getting to be a regular
interrogation point. We are not Bible commentators, child, you cannot
expect us to explain all the difficult passages.

"The Embroidery Club meets here tomorrow, Evadne," exclaimed Marion,
"and I don't believe you have touched your table scarf since they were
here before. What will Celeste Follingsby think? She works so rapidly,
and her drawn work is a perfect poem."

"No, I have not," confessed Evadne. "It seems such silly work, to draw
threads apart and then sew them together again."

Isabelle elevated her eyebrows with a look of horror.

Louis laughed. "She's a hopeless case, Isabelle. You'll never convert
her into an elegant trifler. You might as well throw up the contract."

"It seems to me, Evadne," said his sister icily, "that you might have a
little regard for the decorums of society. Don't, I beg of you, give
utterance to such heresies before the girls. And I wish you would not
call 
it _my_ Bible. I did not make it."

"That is quite true, Evadne," said Louis gravely. "If she had, there
would have been a good deal left out."

Isabella shot an angry glance at him but made no remark. Her brother's
sarcasms were always received in silence.

"Eva," she said after a pause, "I intend to call you by that name in
future,--your full one is too troublesome."

Evadne shivered. Her father was the only one who had ever abbreviated
her name. "I shall not answer to it," she said quietly.

"Why, pray?"

"Because, I suppose, in common with the rest of the lower animals, I
have a natural repugnance to being cut in two."

"How tiresome you are!" exclaimed Isabelle with a pout. "I do not object
to my first syllable. All the girls at school call me Isa. Mamma, did
you remember to order the tulle for our wings? Claude Rivers has
finished hers and they are perfectly sweet. She showed them to me this
afternoon."

"Wings, Isabelle! What in the world are you up to now?"

"A Butterfly Social, Papa. We must raise money in some way. The church
is frightfully in debt."

"That is a deplorable fact, but I did not know butterflies were famed as
financiers."

"Oh, of course it is just for the novelty of the thing. The last social
we had was a Mother Goose, and we have had Brownie suppers and Pink teas
and everything else we could think of. We must have something to
attract, you know."

"I wonder if it really pays?" ventured Marion. "It never seems to me
there is much left, after you deduct the cost of the preparation. People
might as well give the money outright. It would save them a world of
trouble."

"Why, you silly child, it is to promote sociability in the church. As to
the trouble, of course we do not count that. We must expect to make
sacrifices."

"But they do not make the church any more sociable," said Marion boldly,
who, having struck for freedom of thought, was following up her
advantage. "The same people take part every time and the others are left
outside."

"Nonsense!" said Isabelle hotly. "It is only those who
 cannot afford to
take part, and think what a treat it is for them to look on!"

"A sort of half-price theatre," said Louis with a sneer.

"I don't believe they find the looking on such fun as you think," said
Marion, who was astonished at herself. "Suppose you try if they wouldn't
like to take part and offer your place in the Cantata to Jemima Dobbs."

"Well done, Sis!" and Louis applauded softly.

Isabelle's lip curled. "Upon my word, Marion, you bid fair to become as
hot an anarchist as Louise Michel. It is a mystery to me where you find
out the Christian names of all the ungainly people in the congregation.
The other sopranos would feel complimented to have a prima-donna with a
face like a full moon and hands like a blacksmith's foisted upon them!
One must have a little regard for appearances," and Isabelle drew her
graceful figure up to its full height.

"Jemima Dobbs isn't dynamite, and I have no anarchical tendencies,"
persisted Marion stoutly,--"but beauty is only skin deep, Isabelle. She
supports a sick mother and five children and that is more than any of
the rest of us could do," and Marion, frightened at her momentary
temerity, shrank back into her shell.

"It is a most unaccountable thing, Lawrence," said Mrs. Hildreth, "why
the church should be so heavily encumbered. I am sure you contribute
handsomely and the pew rents are high. There is always a large
congregation. I cannot understand."

"It is largely composed of transients though, my dear, and they never
carry more than a nickel in their pockets, so the weight of the burden
falls upon a few. The expenses are very heavy. Jerome wants to make it
the most popular church in the city, and the new quartette proves an
extravagant luxury."

"Oh, well," said Mrs. Hildreth, "of course one cannot grudge the money
for that. Professional singing is such an attraction! The way Madame
Rialto took that high C last Sunday was superb."

"Well," said Isabelle, "I don't think there is any doubt that Doctor
Jerome is the most popular preacher in the city. He is goin
g to preach
next Sunday on the moral progress of social sciences, and next month he
commences his series of sermons on the social problems of the day. He
does take such an interest in sociology."

"But why doesn't he preach Jesus Christ?" asked Evadne wonderingly.

"You will get to be a regular fanatic, Evadne, if you ring the changes
on that subject so often. Doctor Jerome says he wants his people to have
an intelligent idea of the progress of events. Of course everyone
understands the Bible.

"I do think he is the loveliest man!" she continued rapturously, "he is
so sympathetic; and Celeste Follingsby says he is 'perfectly heavenly in
affliction.' Her little sister died last week, you know. It is so
awkward that it should have happened just now. She will not be able to
take any part in the Cantata, and she had the sweetest dress!"

"Very ill-timed of Providence!" said Louis gravely. "What a pity it is,
Isabelle, that you couldn't have the regulation of affairs." He yawned
and strolled lazily towards the fireplace. When he looked round again,
Evadne was the only other occupant of the room.

"Well, coz, what do you think of the situation? I belong to the
worldlings, of course, but I confess the idea of Jesus Christ at a
Butterfly Social is tremendously incongruous. We have the best of it,
Evadne, for we live up to our theories. Give it up, coz. You'll find it
a hopeless task to make the Bible and modern Christianity agree."

He looked at his watch.

"I say, Evadne, Jefferson is playing at the Metropolitan in Richard III.
to-night. Let us go and hear him."

And Evadne went, and enjoyed it immensely.

CHAPTER VII.

"I am going for a long ride into the country, Evadne," said her uncle
one morning, "would you like to come with me?"

Evadne gave a glad assent. After her beautiful tropical life, it seemed
to her as if she should choke, shut away from the wide expanse of sky
which she loved, among monotonous rows of houses and dingy streets.

As they left the city behind them and the road swept out into the open,
she ga
ve a long sigh of delight. Her uncle laughed.

"Well, Evadne, does it please you?"

"It is the first time I have felt as if I could breathe," she said.

"So you don't take kindly to Marlborough? Well, I suppose it is a rude
awakening from your sunny land, but you will get used to it. We grow
accustomed to all life's disagreeable surprises as time rolls on."

Evadne shivered. "I do not think I shall ever grow accustomed to it,
Uncle Lawrence."

"Ah, you are young. We grow wiser as our hair turns grey."

"If that is wisdom, I do not care to grow wise."

"Not grow wise, Evadne!" said her uncle quizzically. "In this age, when
women claim a surplusage of all the brain power bestowed upon the race!
What will you do when you have to attend to business?"

"Business," echoed Evadne, "I have never thought about it, Uncle
Lawrence."

"No turn for dollars and cents, eh? Did your father never consult you
about his affairs?"

Evadne's lip quivered. "Oh, yes," she said, and her words were a cry of
pain, "he consulted me about everything, but I do not think there was
ever any mention of money. Does money constitute business, Uncle
Lawrence?"

"Wealth gives power, Evadne. Money is one of the greatest things in the
world. While we are on the subject I may as well tell you that your
father wrote me concerning the disposition of his property. I shall look
after your interests carefully, together with my own, and give you the
same quarterly allowance that my own girls have. When you are older I
will go more into detail, but it is not worth while now to worry your
head over columns of uninteresting figures. I shall open an account for
you at the National Bank and you can draw on that for your expenses.
Your aunt will initiate you into the mysteries of shopping. By the way,
you must have gone through that experience in Barbadoes. How did you
manage there?"

Evadne turned her head away and clenched her hands tightly as the flood
of bitter-sweet memories threatened to engulf her.

"Papa always went with me," she said slowly, "whatever he
 liked I
chose."

Judge Hildreth gave a sigh of relief. He had extricated himself from a
difficult position with diplomatic skill. It did not occur to him that a
lie which is half the truth is the meanest kind of a lie. He had
acquainted his niece with all that was necessary for her to know at
present, and at the same time left himself a loophole of escape from the
imputation of disregarding his brother's wishes. When she became old
enough to assume the responsibility, and he got his affairs straightened
out sufficiently to admit of transferring to her care the funds which
were so absolutely essential to his present success, he would put Evadne
in full possession of her inheritance. Results had proved the wisdom of
his decision. By her own acknowledgment his niece had never given a
thought to the subject. His brother's plan would be a height of
imprudence from which he was bound to shield her.

In Evadne's mind also thought was busy. "Money is one of the greatest
things in the world," her uncle had said, and she had read that morning,
"tongues shall cease, and knowledge shall be done away, but love never
faileth. Now abideth faith, hope, and love; the greatest of these is
love." Was Louis right? Did Christians and the Bible not agree? And the
business of _her_ life was to find Jesus Christ. Was there any money in
that?

When they reached Hollywood, where Judge Hildreth had business with Mr.
Hawthorne, Evadne was in an ecstasy of silent rapture. She had never
dreamed what a New England farm might be. Its varied beauty, clad in the
dazzling robes of early summer, came upon her with the suddenness of a
revelation. She begged to be allowed to wait for her uncle out of doors,
and wandered slowly on past the great barns to where the wide gate
stretched across the green road. When she reached it she stopped and
looked with keen delight at the beautiful creatures in the fields on
either side. The sunshine fell upon her with loving warmth; in the
distance she could hear the whirr of a mowing machine and the shouts of
the 
men at work. A magnificent young horse thrust his head familiarly
over the fence near by, and under the shade of a great tree Primrose,
with her graceful calf beside her, was lazily chewing her cud.

Everything spoke of contentment and comfort and peace. An unutterable
longing seized upon the lonely girl. Here at least she would have God's
creatures to love, and his woods and the sky! She laid her head down
upon the gate with a smothered cry.

"If I only belonged,--like the cows!"

"Pitty lady!"

Startled by the sweet, baby voice, Evadne looked up to find a pair of
laughing blue eyes peeping sympathetically at her. The sun-bonnet had
fallen back and the golden curls were tossed in luxurious confusion over
the little head.

Evadne caught the child in her arms.

"You little darling!"

"Yes, me is," said the child, resting contentedly within Evadne's
embrace, as if, with the mysterious telepathy of childhood, she
recognized a spiritual affinity which she was bound to help. "Me's very
nice. Don says so."

"And who is Don?" asked Evadne.

"Don's my bootiful man. Me's doin' to marry Don when me gets big. Oh,
dere he is!" and breaking from Evadne, she rolled herself between the
bars of the gate and ran at the top of her speed towards John Randolph,
who just then appeared around a bend in the road, one arm thrown lightly
over the neck of the horse he had been training.

"Halloo, Nansie!" Evadne heard his cheery greeting, saw him stoop and
lift the child on to the horse's back, and was so interested in the
pretty scene that she forgot she was a stranger. When she came to
herself with a start the little cavalcade had reached the gate and John
Randolph stood before her with his hat in his hand.

Evadne bowed. "It is so beautiful!" she said. "I have been waiting for
my uncle and lost myself among the harmonies of Nature."

John Randolph's eyes lightened. "It is God's world," he answered with a
sweet reverence.

Evadne looked full into the shining face. "Do you know Jesus Christ?"
she asked impulsively.

The face softened int
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson,
Steve Schulze and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent postpaid, on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | We will Mail Free |
 | |
 | A COVER |
 | |
 | Lettered & Stamped, with New Title Page |
 | |
 | FOR BINDING |
 | |
 | FIRST VOLUME, |
 | |
 | On Receipt of 50 Cents, |
 | |
 | OR THE |
 | |
 | TITLE PAGE ALONE, FREE, |
 | |
 | On application to |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and cheaper |
 | than any other Pen in the market. Special attention is |
 | called to the following grades, as being better suited for |
 | business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | |
 | Sole Agents for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol. II. No. 28.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,

By ORPHEUS C. KERR,

Continued in this Number.

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bound Volume No. 1. |
 | |
 | The first volume of PUNCHINELLO--the only first-class, |
 | original, illustrated, humorous and satirical weekly paper |
 | published in this country--ending with No. 26, September 24, |
 | 1870, |
 | |
 | Bound in Extra Cloth, 
|
 | |
 | will be ready for delivery on Oct. 1, 1870. |
 | |
 | PRICE $2.50. |
 | |
 | Sent postpaid to any part of the United States on receipt of |
 | price. |
 | |
 | A copy of the paper for one year, from October 1st, No. 27, |
 | and the Bound Volume, (the latter prepaid,) will be sent to |
 | any subscriber for $5.50. |
 | |
 | Three copies for one year, and three Bound Volumes, with an |
 | extra copy of Bound Volume, to any person sending us three |
 | subscriptions for $16.50. |
 | |
 | |
 | One copy of paper for one year, with a fine chromo premium, |
 | for ... $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, mailed free .10 |
 | |
 | |
 | Back numbers can always be supplied, as the paper is |
 | electrotyped. |
 | |
 | Book canvassers will find this volume a |
 | |
 | Very Saleable Book. |
 | |
 | Orders supplied at a very liberal discount. |
 | |
 | All remittances should be made in Post Office orders. |
 | |
 | Canvassers wanted for the paper everywhere. Send for our |
 | Special Circular. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | |
 | Punchinello Publishing Co., |
 | |
 | 83 NASSAU ST., N. Y. |
 | |
 | P. O. Box No. 2783. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO |
 | |
 | JOHN NICKINSON, |
 | |
 | ROOM NO. 4, |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, N. Y. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for September, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | 33 
BROADWAY, |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent Interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_ |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents._ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing Houses, |
 | can have the same forwarded by inclosing two stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2783.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL, |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | [P. O. BOX 2845.] |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | The only Journal of its kind in America!! |
 | |
 | The American Chemist: |
 | |
 | A MONTHLY JOURNAL |
 | |
 | OF |
 | |
 | THEORETICAL, ANALYTICAL AND TECHNICAL CHEMISTRY. |
 | |
 | DEVOTED ESPECIALLY TO AMERICAN INTERESTS. |
 | |
 | EDITED BY |
 | |
 | Chas. F. Chandler, Ph. D., & W. H. Chandler. |
 | |
 | |
 | The Proprietors and Publishers of T
HE AMERICAN CHEMIST, |
 | having purchased the subscription list and stock of the |
 | American reprint of THE CHEMICAL NEWS, have decided to |
 | advance the interests of American Chemical science by the |
 | publication of a Journal which, shall bu a medium of |
 | communication for all practical, thinking, experimenting, |
 | and manufacturing scientific men throughout the country. |
 | |
 | The columns of THE AMERICAN CHEMIST are open for the |
 | reception of original articles from any part of the country, |
 | subject to approval of the editor. Letters of inquiry on any |
 | points of interest within the scope of the Journal will |
 | receive prompt attention. |
 | |
 | THE AMERICAN CHEMIST |
 | |
 | Is a Journal of especial interest to |
 | |
 | SCHOOLS AND MEN OF SCIENCE, TO COLLEGES, APOTHECARIES, |
 | DRUGGISTS, PHYSICIANS, ASSAYERS, DYERS, PHOTOGRAPHERS, |
 | MANUFACTURERS, |
 | |
 | And all concerned in scientific pursuits. |
 | |
 | Subscription, $5.00 per annum, in advance; 50 cts. per |
 | number. Specimen copies, 25 cts. |
 | |
 | Address WILLIAM BALDWIN & CO., |
 | |
 | Publishers and Proprietors. |
 | |
 | 434 Broome Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | POMEROY'S DEMOCRAT |
 | |
 | Will each week contain Pomeroy's Saturday Night Chapters, |
 | Pomeroy's Social Chat with Friends, Editorials on different |
 | Topics, Terence McGrant Letters, a splendid Masonic |
 | Department; in short, everything that helps to make a |
 | first-class Family Newspaper, and the best advertising |
 | medium in the United States. |
 | |
 | |
 | Single Subscription, $2.50. |
 | |
 | For sale by News Dealers everywhere at Six Cents per copy. |
 | |
 | Office, 166 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 | C. P. SYKES, Publisher. |
 | |
 | M. M. POMEROY, Editor and Propriet
or. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

 * * * * *

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Office of the Librarian of
Congress at Washington.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XXI.

BENTHAM TO THE RESCUE.

European travellers in this country--especially if one economical
condition of their coming hither has not been the composition of works
of imagination on America, sufficiently contemptuous to pay all the
expenses of the trip--have, occasionally--and particularly if they have
been invited to write for New York magazines, take professorships in
native colleges, or lecture on the encouraging Continental progress of
scientific atheism before Boston audiences;--such travellers, we say,
convinced that they shall lose no money by it, but, on the contrary,
rather sanguine of making a little thereby in the long run, have
occasionally remarked, that, in the United States, women journeying
alone are treated with a chivalric courtesy and deference not so
habitually practiced in any other second-class new nation on the face of
the earth.[1]

What, oh, what can be more true than this? A lady well stricken in
years, and of adequate protraction of nose and rectilinear undeviation
of figure, can travel alone from Maine to Florida with as perfect
immunity from offensive masculine intrusion as though she were guarded
by a regiment; while a somewhat younger girl, with curls and an innocent
look, can not appear unaccompanied by an escort in an American omnibus,
car, ferry-boat, or hotel, without appealing at once to the finest
fatherly feelings of every manly middle-aged observer whose wife is not
watching him, and exciting as general a desire to make her trip socially
delightful as though each gentlemanly eye seeking hers were indeed that
of a tender sire.

Thus, although Miss POTTS'S lonely stay in her hotel had been so brief,
the mysterious American instinct of chivalry had 
discovered it very
early on the first morning after her arrival, and she arose from her
delicious sleep to find at least half a dozen written offers of
hospitality from generous strangers, sticking under her door.
Understanding that she was sojourning without natural protectors in a
strange city, the thoughtful writers, who appeared to be chiefly Western
men of implied immense fortunes, begged her (by the delicate name of
"Fair Unknown") to take comfort in the thought that they were stopping
at the same hotel and would protect her from all harm with their lives.
In proof of this unselfish disposition on their parts, several of them
were respectively ready to take her to a circus-matinee, or to drive in
Central Park, on that very day: and her prompt acceptance of these
signal evidences of a disinterested friendship for womanhood without a
natural protector could not be more simply indicated to those who now
freely offered such friendship, than by her dropping her fork _twice_ at
the public breakfast table, or sending the waiter back _three_ times
with the boiled eggs to have them cooked rightly.

FLORA had completed her chemical toilet, put all the bottles, jars, and
small round boxes back into her satchel again, and sat down to a second
reading of these gratifying intimations that a prepossessing female
orphan is not necessarily without assiduous paternal guardianship at her
command wherever there are Western fathers, when Mr. DIBBLE appeared, as
he had promised, accompanied by Gospeler SIMPSON.

"Miss CAROWTHERS was so excited by your sudden flight, Miss POTTS," said
the latter, "that she came at once to me and OLDY with your farewell
note, and would not stop saying 'Did you ever!' until, to restrain my
aggravated mother from fits, I promised to follow you to your guardian's
and ascertain what your good-bye note would have meant if it had
actually been punctuated."

"Our reverend friend reached me about an hour ago," added Mr. DIBBLE,
"saying, that a farewell note without a comma, colon, semi-colon, or
period in
 it, and with every other word beginning with a capital, and
underscored, was calculated to drive friends to distraction. I took the
liberty of reminding him, my dear, that young girls from boarding-school
should hardly be expected to have advanced as far as English composition
in their French and musical studies; and I also related to him what you
had told me of Mr. BUMSTEAD."

"And I don't know that, under the circumstances, you could do a better
thing than you have done," continued the Gospeler. "Mr. BUMSTEAD,
himself, explains your flight upon the supposition that you were
possibly engaged with myself, my mother, Mr. DIBBLE, and the PENDRAGONS,
in killing poor Mr. DROOD."

"Oh, oughtn't he to be ashamed of himself, when he knows that I never
did kill any absurd creature!" cried the Flowerpot, in earnest
deprecation. "And just think of darling MAGNOLIA, too, with her poor,
ridiculous brother! You're a lawyer, Mr. DIBBLE and I should think you
could get them a _habeas corpus_, or a divorce, or some other perfectly
absurd thing about courts, that would make the judges tell the juries to
bring them in Not Guilty."

Fixing upon the lovely young reasoner a look expressive of his
affectionate wonder at her inspired perception of legal possibilities,
the old lawyer said, that the first thing in order was a meeting between
herself and Miss PENDRAGON; which, as it could scarcely take place (all
things considered,) with propriety in the private room of that lady's
brother, nor without publicity in his own office, or in a hotel, he
hardly knew how to bring about.

And here we have an example of that difference between novels and real
life which has been illustrated more than once before in this
conscientious American Adaptation of what all our profoundly critical
native journals pronounce the "most elaborately artistic work" of the
grandest of English novelists. In an equivalent situation of real life,
Mr. DIBBLE'S quandary would not have been easily relieved; but, by the
magic of artistic fiction, the particular kind of
 extemporized character
absolutely necessary to help him and the novel continuously along was at
that moment coming up the stairs of the hotel.[2]

At the critical instant, a servant knocked, to say, that there was a
gentleman below, "with a face as long me arrum, sir, who axed me was
there a man here av the name av SIMPSON, Miss?"

"It is JOHN--it is Mr. BUMSTEAD!" shrieked FLORA, hastening
involuntarily towards a mirror,--"and just see how my dress is
wrinkled!"

"My name is BENTHAM--JEREMY BENTHAM," said a deep voice in the doorway;
and there entered a gloomy figure, with smoky, light hair, a curiously
long countenance, and black worsted gloves. "SIMPSON!--old
OCTAVIUS!--did you never, never see me before?"

"If I am not greatly mistaken," returned the Gospeler, sternly. "I saw
you standing in the bar-room of the hotel, just now, as we came up."

"Yes," sighed the stranger, "I was there--waiting for a Western
friend--when you passed in. And has sorrow, then, so changed me, that
you do not know me? Alas! alack! woe's me!"

"BENTHAM, you say?" cried the Ritualistic clergyman, with a start, and
sudden change of countenance. "Surely you're not the rollicking
fellow-student who saved my life at Yale?"

"I am! I am!" sobbed the other, smiting his bosom. "While studying
theology, you'd gone to sleep in bed reading the Decameron. I, in the
next room, suddenly smelt a smell of wood burning. Breaking into your
apartment, I saw your candle fallen upon your pillow and your head on
fire. Believing that, if neglected, the flames would spread to some
vital part, I seized a water-pitcher and dashed the contents upon you.
Up you instantly sprang, with a theological expression on your lips, and
engaged me in violent single combat. "Madman!" roared I, "is it thus you
treat one who has saved your life?" Falling upon the floor, with a black
eye, you at once consented to be reconciled; and, from that hour forth,
we were both members of the same secret society."

Leaping forward, the Reverend OCTAVIUS wrung both the black worsted
gl
oves of Mr. BENTHAM, and introduced the latter to the old lawyer and
his ward.

"He did indeed save all but my head from the conflagration, and
extinguished that, even, before it was much charred," cried the grateful
Ritualist, with marked emotion.--"But, JEREMY, why this aspect of
depression?"

"OCTAVIUS, old friend," said BENTHAM, his hollow voice quivering, "let
no man boast himself upon the gaiety of his youth, and fondly
dream--poor self-deceiver!--that his maturity may be one of revelry. You
know what I once was. Now I am conducting a first-class American Comic
Paper."

Commiseration, earnest and unaffected, appeared upon every countenance,
and Mr. DIBBLE was the first to break the ensuing deep silence.

"If I am not mistaken, then," observed the good lawyer, quietly, "the
scene of your daily loss of spirits is in the same building with our
young friend, Mr. PENDRAGON, whom you may know."

"I do know him, sir; and that his sister has lately come unto him. His
room, by means of outside shutters, was once a refuge to me from the
Man"--Here Mr. BENTHAM'S face flamed with inconceivable hatred--"who
came to tell me just how an American first-class Comic Paper _should_ be
conducted."

"At what time does your rush of subscribers cease?"

"As soon as I begin to charge anything for my paper."

"And the newsmen, who take it by the week,--what is their usual time for
swarming in your office?"

"On the day appointed for the return of unsold copies."

"Then I _have_ an idea," said Mr. DIBBLE. "It appears to me, Mr.
BENTHAM, that your office, besides being so near Mr. PENDRAGON'S
quarters, furnishes all the conditions for a perfectly private
confidential interview between this young lady here, and her friend,
Miss PENDRAGON. Mr. SIMPSON, if you approve, be kind enough to acquaint
Mr. BENTHAM with Miss POTTS'S history, without mentioning names; and
explain to him, also, why the ladies' interview should take place in a
spot whither that singular young man, Mr. BUMSTEAD, would not be likely
to prowl, if in town, in his insp
ection of umbrellas."

The Gospeler hurriedly related the material points of FLORA'S history to
his recovered friend, who moaned with all the more cheerful parts, and
seemed to think that the serious ones might be worked-up in comic
miss-spelling for his paper.--"For there is nothing more humorous in
human life," said he, gloomily, "than the defective orthography of a
fashionable young girl's education for the solemnity of matrimony."

Finally, they all set off for the appointed place of retirement, upon
nearing which Mr. DIBBLE volunteered to remain outside as a guard
against any possible interruption. The Gospeler led the way up the dark
stairs of the building, when they had gained it; and the Flowerpot,
following, on JEREMY BENTHAM'S arm, could not help glancing shyly up
into the melancholy face of her escort, occasionally. "Do you _never_
smile?" she could not help asking.

"Yes," he said, mournfully, "sometimes: when I clean my teeth."

No more was said; for they were entering the room of which the tone and
atmosphere were those of a receiving-vault.

[Footnote 1: Shades of QUINTILIAN and Dr. JOHNSON, what a
sentence!]

[Footnote 2: Quite
independently of any specific design to that end by the Adapter, this
Adaptation, carefully following the original English narrative as it
does, can not avoid acting as a kind of practical--and, of course,
somewhat exaggerative--commentary upon what is strained, forced, or out
of the line of average probabilities, in the work Adapted.]

CHAPTER XXII.

A CONFUSED STATE OF THINGS.

The principal office of the Comic Paper was one of those amazingly
unsympathetic rooms in which the walls, windows and doors all have a
stiff, unsalient aspect of the most hard-finished indifference to every
emotion of humanity, and a perfectly rigid insensibility to the
pleasures or pains of the tenants within their impassive shelter. In the
whole configuration of the heartless, uncharacterized place there was
not one gracious inequality to lean against; not a ledge to rest elbow
upon; not a panel
, not even a stove-pipe hole, to become dearly familiar
to the wistful eye; not so much as a genial crack in the plastering, or
a companionable rattle in a casement, or a little human obstinacy in a
door to base some kind of an acquaintance upon and make one less lonely.
Through the grim, untwinkling windows, gaping sullenly the wrong way
with iron shutters, came a discouraged light, strained through the
narrow intervals of the dusty roofs above, to discover a large
coffin- desk surmounted by ghastly busts of HERVEY, KEBLE and
BLAIR;[3] a smaller desk, over which hung a picture of the Tomb of
WASHINGTON, and at which sat a pallid assistant-editor in deep mourning,
opening the comic contributions received by last mail; a still smaller
desk, for the nominal writer of subscription-wrappers; files of the
_Evangelist_, _Observer_ and _Christian Union_ hanging along the wall; a
dead carpet of churchyard-green on the floor; and a print of Mr. PARKE
GODWIN just above the mantel of momumental marble.

Upon finding themselves in this temple of Momus, and observing that its
peculiar arrangement of sunshine made their complexions look as though
they had been dead a few days, Gospeler SIMPSON and the Flowerpot
involuntarily spoke in whispers behind their hands.

"Does that room belong to your establishment, also, BENTHAM?" whispered
the Gospeler, pointing rather fearfully, as he spoke, towards a
side-door leading apparently into an adjoining' apartment.

"Yes," was the low response.

"Is there--is there anybody dead in there?" whispered Mr. SIMPSON,
tremulously.

"No.--Not yet"

"Then," whispered the Ritualistic clergyman, "you might step in there,
Miss POTTS, and have your interview with Miss PENDRAGON, whom Mr.
BENTHAM will, I am sure, cause to be summoned from up-stairs."

The assistant-editor of the Comic Paper stealing softly from the office
to call the other young lady down, Mr. JEREMY BENTHAM made a sign that
FLORA should follow him to the supplementary room indicated; his
low-spirited manner being as though he had sai
d: "If you wish to look at
the body, miss, I will now show you the way."

Leaving the Gospeler lost in dark abstraction near the black mantel, the
Flowerpot allowed the sexton of the establishment to conduct her
funereally into the place assigned for her interview, and stopped aghast
before a huge black object standing therein.

"What's this?" she gasped, almost hysterically.

"Only a safe," said Mr. BENTHAM, with inexplicable bitterness of tone.
"Merely our fire-and-burglar-proof receptacle for the money constantly
pouring in from first-class American Comic journalism."--Here Mr.
BENTHAM slapped his forehead passionately, checked something like a sob
in his throat, and abruptly returned to the main office.

Scarcely, however, had he closed the door of communication behind him,
when another door, opening from the hall, was noiselessly unlatched, and
MAGNOLIA PENDRAGON glided into the arms of her friend.

"FLORA!" murmured the Southern girl, "I can scarcely credit my eyes! It
seems so long since we last met! You've been getting a new bonnet, I
see."

"It's like an absurd dream!" responded the Flowerpot, wonderingly
caressing her. "I've thought of you and your poor, ridiculous brother
twenty times a day. How much you must have gone through here! Are they
wearing skirts full, or scant, this season?"

"About medium, dear. But how do you happen to be here, in Mr. BENTHAM'S
office?"

In answer to this question, FLORA related all that bad happened at
Bumsteadville and since her flight from thence; concluding by warning
MAGNOLIA, that her possession of a black alpaca waist, slightly worn,
had subjected her to the ominous suspicion of the Ritualistic organist.

"I scorn and defy the suspicions of that enemy of the persecuted South,
and high-handed wooer of exclusively Northern women!" exclaimed Miss
PENDRAGON, vehemently. "Is this Mr. BENTHAM married?"

"I suppose not."

"Is he visiting any one?"

"I shouldn't think so, dear."

"Then," added MAGNOLIA, thoughtfully, "if dear Mr. DIBBLE approves, he
might be a friend to MON
TGOMERY and myself; and, by being so near us,
protect us both from Mr. BUMSTEAD. Just think, dear FLORA, what heaps of
sorrow I should endure, if that base man's suspicion about my alpaca
waist should be only a pretence, to frighten me into ultimately
receiving his addresses."

"I don't think there's any danger, love," said Miss POTTS, rather
sharply.

"Why, FLORA precious?"

"Oh, because he's so absurdly fastidious, you know, about regularity of
features in women."

"More than he is about brains, I should think, dear, from what you tell
me of his making love to you."

Here both young ladies trembled very much, and said they never, never
would have believed it of each other; and were only reconciled when
FLORA sobbed that she was a poor unmarried orphan, and Miss PENDRAGON
moaned piteously that an unwedded Southern girl without money had better
go away somewhere in the desert, with her crushed brother, and die at
once for their down-trodden section. Then, indeed, they embraced
tearfully; and, in proof of the perfect restoration of their devoted
friendship, agreed never to marry if they could avoid it, and told each
other the prices of all their best clothes.

"You _won't_ tell your brother that I've been here?" said the
Flowerpot. "I'm so absurdly afraid that he can't help blaming me for
causing some of his trouble."

"Can't I tell him, even if it would serve to amuse him in his
desolation?" asked the sister, persuasively. "I want to see him smile
again, just as he does some days when a hand-organ-man's monkey climbs
up to our windows from the street."

"Well, you _may_ tell him, then, you absurd thing!" returned FLORA,
blushing; and, with another embrace, they parted, and the deeply
momentous interview was over.

(_To be Continued._)

[Footnote 3: Author of "The Grave."]

 * * * * *

[Illustration: ROMANCE AND REALITY.

IN THE LIBRARY.

_Jones, (reading.)_ "THE GLASS OF FASHION AND THE MOULD OF FORM, THE
OBSERVED OF ALL OBSERVERS."

_Jenkins, (with enthusiasm.)_ "PERFECT DESCRIPTION OF MY WIFE!"

IN THE GARDEN.


THIS IS MRS. JENKINS, IN HER MORNING TOILETTE.]

 * * * * *

OFFICE SEEKING.[4]

BY ICHABOD BOGGS,

THE NEW AMERICAN POET.

PREFATORY NOTE.--The reader is requested to judge the following
production mildly, as it is the first effort of a youthful genius (16
years old in looks and feeling, 42 by the family bible and census.) The
author has felt that America should have a new kind of verse of its own,
and he thinks he here offers one which has never been used by any other
mortal poet. It is called the duodekameter. Perhaps it may be proper to
add that the following is _poetry_.

I.

 You see everybody in our town was running around, getting fat jobs
 and positions, and picking up a million dollars or so,
 So I felt it incumbent on me
 To shake myself up, and see if there wasn't a good butter firkin, well
 filled, loafing around idle, in which could conveniently locate my
 centre of gravity, and so I said to myself, I'll go
 To Washington and see,
 Says ICHABOD BOGGS, says I.

II.

 Now, don't you see, you might just as well ask for a big position at
 first, and then take what you can get,
 At least that has been my rule so far,
 For, as I says to myself, if you can only get a very high position, with
 a sort of nabob's salary, and lots of perquisites running in
 annually, you needn't do anything, you bet,
 But puff at your cigar,
 Says ICHABOD BOGGS, says I.

III.

 So I put on my best clothes, and a sort of a big blue necktie,
 and shortly thereafter showed myself to Mr. GRANT,
 And said that there had been quite enough
 Of this giving away big offices to people who hadn't big reputations,
 and that he had other fish to fry, and that, as he wouldn't give the
 Custom House to my son, I'd take it myself, and then I stopped,
 and he looked, "I shan't,"
 But all he said was--puff,
 Says General GRANT, says he.

IV.

 Then all the smoke got in my nose, and I sneezed and snorted a bit,
 and then I just simply remarked and said
 That he needn't go and get into a huff,
 And if he didn't like to give me that office, could
n't he make me
 Minister to England, as I was a big feeder, or if that didn't suit,
 why, if he'd do it, I wouldn't object to being Minister to Cuba,
 when the Cubans had been all killed, and were thoroughly dead?
 But all be said was--puff,
 Says General GRANT, says he.

V.

 Well, then I got kind of discouraged, but I thought that I'd better try
 again, and not get up so far,
 But ask for what he'd give beyond doubt,
 So I asked for a position as night watchman at the Navy Yard, and
 thought I'd get it, and he'd answer my request, for I'd noticed that
 his Havana was gradually growing smaller, and he did answer me,
 just as he'd thrown away the end of his cigar,
 He simply said, "Get out!"
 Says General GRANT, says he.

VI.

 So I got out, as fast as a pair of legs, with a number twelve boot
 kicking at the place where they're joined, would permit,
 And wandered off, just about as far
 As I conveniently could, and then I sat down on a milestone and raised
 my voice to Heaven, and cried aloud, that, weather permitting,
 General GRANT should never, _never_, NEVER, go back to the White
 House, not if I could help it,
 To puff on his cigar,
 Said ICHABOD BOGGS, said I.

[Footnote 4: We hope none of our readers will labor under the impression
that we look upon the above effusion as a poetical one, but, in this day
of many isms, it may happen that the above style may become prevalent,
and we think it our duty to present everything that is new. EDS.]

 * * * * *

2.02 TO HARNESS.

Mr. Punchinello on the Turf.

History relates that the era of Horse-racing commenced about the year
680 B. C., but it was some time after that when Mr. PUNCHINELLO made his
_debut_ as a candidate for the honors of the turf. To put the matter
more concisely, it is just six days since he drove his horse "Creeping
Peter" on the track at Monmouth Park, Long Branch. The only object which
Mr. P. had in view, when he purchased his celebrated trotter and put him
into training, was the improvement of the breed of American horses.
While our BONNERS, V
ANDERBILTS and GRANTS are devoting all their
surplus time and means to this great end, Mr. P., in placing the name of
his yellow horse in the hands of the poolseller, would scorn to have a
less noble aim.

But this great object need not interfere with others of less importance,
and therefore Mr. P. will not deny that, after having exhibited to his
friends and the sporting fraternity in general, his little investment in
fancy horseflesh, he made up a very satisfactory betting-book.

Now Mr. P. believed,--and events proved him to be correct,--that when
his friends and the sporting fraternity saw his horse, they would bet
heavily against him. Mr. P., however, in all the pride of amateur
ownership, bet quite as heavily _upon_ his noble steed. His friends and
the above-mentioned fraternity chuckled and winked behind his back, but
although Mr. P. heard them chuckle and knew that they were winking, his
belief in his final success never wavered. Any ordinary observer might
be expected to remark that Creeping Peter was not entirely without
blemish. Besides being spavined and having three of his hoofs injured by
sand-crack, he had poll-evil, fistulas, malanders, ring-bone, capped
hock, curb, splint, and several other maladies which made him a very
suitable horse for the general public to bet against.

But Mr. P.'s courage never quailed!

When he made his appearance on the track (for he drove his horse
himself) he was the object of general attention. The following view
(from a photograph by ROCKWOOD) gives an excellent idea of the horse and
driver.

[Illustration]

Nearly everybody on the ground advised Mr. P. to leave his cloth in the
stable, for it would certainly interfere with the speed of his horse and
probably get wrapped up in the wheels and cause an accident. But Mr. P.
would listen to nothing of the sort. He told everybody that he wasn't
going to catch cold in his knees, even if he lost the race, and that he
was perfectly willing to run the risk of accidents.

For the benefit of his readers, however, Mr. P. will li
ft up this
heavily shotted lap-cloth and show what was under it.

[Illustration]

Here is arranged a steam-engine, which drives the wheels of the vehicle,
and which will of course propel the whole turnout, horse and all, at a
great rate of speed.

It will now be easily perceived why Mr. P. persisted in keeping his
lap-cloth over his knees.

The entries were as follows:

 ROBERT BONNER'S b. h. Dexter.
 DEREN O. SUE'S b. m. Lady Thorn.
 PUNCHINELLO'S y. h. Creeping Peter.

When the word was given, the horses all got off well and Dexter
immediately took the lead,--buzzing through the air like a
humming-top,--followed closely by Lady Thorn, her nose just lapping his
off jaw. For the first few seconds Mr. P. fell behind, owing to his
fires not yet being properly under way, but the water soon bubbled
merrily in his boiler, and his wheels began to revolve with great
rapidity. And now he sped merrily. Never did the war trumpet inspire the
fiery charger, or hounds and horn excite the mettled hunter, as the
steam-engine in his rear woke all the energies of Creeping Peter.

Swift as revolving pin-wheels or rapid peg-top, those spavins, those
ring-bones, those bulbous hocks, those sand-cracked hoofs and those
rattling ribs went whistling o'er the track. Mid the shouts and yells of
the excited multitude he passed Lady Thorn, overtook Dexter and shot
ahead of him! But he cannot stand that tremendous pace, and down goes
Creeping Peter on his knees. Every man who had bet against him set up a
howl of rapture, but Mr. P. never relaxed a muscle, and on went Creeping
Peter, just as fast as ever, his horny bones dashing away the sand and
gravel like spray from the cut-water of a scudding yacht, and, amid the
wildest clamor, he shot past the judges' stand on his nose and one leg,
making his mile in two minutes and two seconds!

[Illustration]

It is needless to dwell upon the results of this race.

Mr. P. now owes no man anything, nor is he even indebted to his noble
steed. Behold his testimony to the merits of that valuable animal!


[Illustration]

 * * * * *

Something Original In Suicide.

An item in an evening paper states that "a man near Syracuse recently
cut his throat with a scythe."

Well, certainly this was a new Mowed of doing the business, although, as
it was the first instance of the kind on record, it cannot properly be
said that the business was done _a la mowed_.

 * * * * *

Jocular and Ocular.

Can the public be properly said to have looked forward to SEEBACH?

 * * * * *

ANNA DICKINSON.

One bright October morning in the year 1828, a lone lorn woman by the
name of GUMMIDGE might have been seen standing at the corner of a
wheat-field where two cross-roads met and embraced. She was weeping
violently. Ever and anon she would raise her head and gaze mysteriously
in the direction of a cloud of dust which moved slowly over the hill
toward the town. Her name was FATIMA. FATIMA GUMMIDGE. "Sister ANNIE,"
she cried, "what do you see?" But sister ANNIE was far away. She was not
there. She was attending an agricultural fair in the beautiful young
state of Kansas.

Thus gracefully do we introduce our heroine upon the scene. The reader
will be able to judge, from this, whether we are familiar with the
literature of our day, or not. He will be able to form a complimentary
opinion of our culture. He will perceive that we are acquainted with the
writings of Messrs. JAMES, and DICKENS, and BLUEBEARD. There is nothing
like impressing your reader with an adequate sense of your ability for
laborious research, when you are doing biography for a high-toned
journal.

At what period in her career our illustrious victim applied to the
Legislature to change her name from GUMMIDGE to DICKINSON, we are unable
to discover. There is no record of the event in the musty tomes we have
waded through at the Astor Library in search of reliable data. One thing
must be apparent, even to the most violently prejudiced and brutish
bigot--namely, that Miss DICKINSON no longer confesses to the name of
GUMMIDGE. However disrespectful this may be to the memory of Mrs.

GUMMIDGE'S father--but on reflection is it not possible that Mrs.
GUMMIDGE'S maiden name was DICKINSON? There may be something in this.
Let us see. Mrs. GUMMIDGE was born of the brain of Mr. C. DICKENS. Mr.
DICKENS may be said to be the father of the whole GUMMIDGE family. This,
of course, includes GUMMIDGE _pere_. GUMMIDGE _pere_ was therefore
DICKENS' son. Hence the name of DICKENSON. Very good, so far. Now--

But it is unnecessary to press the argument. If the prejudiced bigot is
not yet convinced, nothing would convince him short of a horse-whipping.

The poet, when he wrote "Thou wilt come no more, gentle ANNIE," was
clearly laboring under a mistake. If he had written "Thou wilt be sure
to come again next season, gentle ANNIE," he would have hit it. Lecture
committees know this. Miss DICKINSON earns her living by lecturing.
Occasionally she takes a turn at scrubbing pavements, or going to hear
WENDELL PHILLIPS on "The Lost Arts," or other violent exertion, but her
best hold is lecturing. She has followed the business ever since she was
a girl, and twenty-four (24) years of steady application have made her
no longer a Timid Young Thing. She is not afraid of audiences any more.

It is a favorite recreation of the moral boot-blacks and pious newsboys
of New York to gather in the evening on the steps of Mr. FROTHINGHAM'S
church, and scare each other with thrilling stories of the gentle
ANNIE'S fierce exploits and deeds of daring. Among the best
authenticated of these (stripped of the ornate figures of speech with
which the pious newsboys are wont to embellish the simple facts) are the
following:

1. In the memorable canvass of 1848, Miss DICKINSON stumped the mining
districts of Pennsylvania for FRED DOUGLASS, and was shot at by the
infuriated miners forty-two times, the bullets whistling through her
back hair to that extent that her chignon looked like a section of
suction-hose when the campaign was over.

2. Near the close of the rebellion, Miss DICKINSON wrote to JEFF DAVIS
that she was going to raise a regi
ment and go for him. Peace followed
promptly.

3. In the year 1867 she published a book.

4. In the year 1868 she went to California overland, by railroad, alone.

5. In the year 1869 she attended a lecture by OLIVE LOGAN, and further
showed her fearless nature by embracing Miss LOGAN tempestuously, and
offering to marry her.

6. At various times during her career she has received and successfully
done battle with 14,624 proposals of marriage, 14,600 of which were made
to her _in the city of Chicago!!!_

These evidences of her courage are sufficient to show what she is equal
to, under any emergency. We are now waiting to hear of a seventh act of
bravery on her part which will distance all the above; when she shall
have announced that she is prepared to lecture on "CHARLES DICKENS" she
will have given the last convincing proof that she is equal to
_anything_ terrible.

(Should Mr. PUNCHINELLO object that this biographical sketch is
desultory and "wandering," let him try, himself, to write the biography
of a lady who is incessantly and frantically roaming from one end of the
country to the other, and if he don't wander it will be a wonder.)

 * * * * *

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT!--HEIRS WANTED!

NEW YORK, Oct. 1, 1870.

We, the undersigned, as representatives of the family of the decedent,
hereby call upon all heirs of the late RICHARD COEUR DE LION, who may be
residing in or near this locality, to meet at the Astor House, in New
York, on the fifteenth of this present month of October, to take
measures for the recovery of such portion of the estate of said LION as
is known to have legally descended to his heirs in this country. This
property, to which it will be easy to prove that we, the undersigned,
together with the other members of our family, are the lineal heirs, is
believed to consist mainly of the two hundred thousand byzants assured
to the said LION by SALADIN after the capitulation of Acre. This sum,
which we have reason to believe was duly paid by said SALADIN at the
time appointed, when reduced from golden
 byzants into greenbacks, and
compound-interest at seven _per centum_ for the term of six hundred and
seventy-nine years calculated thereupon, will be found to amount to
upwards of one hundred and seventy thousand million dollars. When the
ransom money of twenty-five hundred Saracens, slain by said LION to
enforce the speedy payment of the principal of this sum by the said
SALADIN, shall have been deducted and paid to such heirs and survivors
of said Saracens as may immediately present their claims, the remainder
will be divided, (as soon as the necessary legal measures shall be
taken,) among the heirs and descendants of said LION in this country.

The immediate object of the meeting, which is now called by the
undersigned, is the collection of sufficient funds from said heirs and
descendants to defray the expenses of a committee (composed of the
undersigned) who shall be charged with the duty of visiting England,
Normandy and Palestine, and obtaining such evidence and such copies of
record in relation to this portion of the estate of the said LION, as
shall make necessary a speedy and equitable division of paid property
among the members of the family in this country.

Lineal heirs who may not be able to attend this meeting in person will
have their interests taken in charge by the undersigned, on the receipt
of twenty-five dollars, which will be due from each heir as the primary
instalment on account of necessary expenses.

Punctual attention to this notice is requested.

(Signed)

 JACOB RICHARDS,
 PETER MCCURDY,
 EBENEZER LYONS.
 JAMES MCLEON,
 L. J. O'LYNN,
 HENRY RICHARDSON,
 Rev. THOS. DICK,
 DICK E. DICKQUE DOUT.

 * * * * *

RECOGNITION OF NILSSON.

 Not that we mean to "patronize," fair Swede;
 No, no, indeed!
 'Tis homage, honest homage that we bring;
 For you can sing!

 Pray, do not think we build you any throne
 On _skill_ alone;
 There's nothing regal in a music box--
 In simple _vox_!

 But when an ardent spirit warms the strain--
 When it is plain
 The artist feels the passion of the scene--
 She
's then our Queen!

 But, dear CHRISTINA! we should still declare
 The Fates unfair,
 Unless she lived as chastely as the rose;
 As NILSSON does!

 Still, still we hesitate!--We will confess,
 (For _you'd_ not guess!)
 We'd have her--that the likeness be complete--
 Young, fair, and sweet!

 In fine, (and now we'll tell you everything,)
 If she can sing,
 And act, and feel, and look, and _be_ like you,
 Why, that will do!

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE YOUNG DEMOC-RATS, ENCOURAGED BY THE OLD RAT DANA,
COME TO GRIEF IN TRYING TO PUT OUT THE HOFFMAN LIGHT.]

 * * * * *

A New Pierian Spring.

The Principal of the "Student's Home," at V------, N.Y., advertising
the advantages of his school, makes the following telling appeal, which
we should think would be hard to resist by such as find study interfere
with digestion.

"COME TO V------. Its Mineral Water strengthens the body, and its
Seminary the mind."

The hope of eventually leaving those classic shades in such a state of
two-fold invigoration, should prove inspiring to the dyspeptic and
studious.

Whether this constant cramming of the mind and purging of the body be
the true secret of longevity as well as of scholarship, we know not; we
should judge, however, from the appearance and conversation of students
in general, that a system directly the reverse of the above mentioned
process would be more certain of turning out the real article.

 * * * * *

Spare Us!

Nor only is everybody's attention directed towards Paris, but the
English Sparrows appear to be gradually Worming themselves into public
estimation. They have been picking away so vigorously, since they were
brought over here, that some of them are now able to pick their way
across Broadway, in the muddiest weather. In course of time, we suppose
the worms will disappear, and then, when these poor birds have nothing
else to pick, they will go out to pic-nics. Come, arouse then, friends
of the sparrow! Fetch out your bread and your grain, and fear not that
these little twitterers will ever over-burden the c
ity.

 * * * * *

A Gourd of Honor(!)

The latest, and most important news from Spain is that SICKLES has been
furnished with a guard by the government.

Some things are managed better in Spain than in this country. SICKLES
should have been placed under guard, here, many a year ago, to keep him
out of mischief.

 * * * * *

"Carpe Diem."

The following telegraphic item is a remarkable instance of the exactness
with which news can be transmitted by the submarine cable:

"LONDON, September 16. Mr. CHARLES REED, member of Parliament for
Hackney, to-day unveiled the monument to ALEXANDER DEFOE, at Bunhill
Fields. The monument in practically one to ROBINSON CRUSOE."

With the triffing exception of calling ROBINSON DEFOE ALEXANDER DEFOE,
(and that is a pardonable error, considering that ALEXANDER SELKIRK was
the prototype of DANIEL CRUSOE,) the above item is perfectly
satisfactory. All the more so, if one pays attention to the date, and
remembers that September 16 fell upon a FRIDAY.

 * * * * *

BY TELEGRAPH FROM VARIOUS PARTS OF THE WORLD.

[Special Correspondence of Punchinello.]

BERLIN, October 15.--In a conversation with King WILLIAM, yesterday, he
said that he relied upon the growing taste in Hoboken for Bavarian beer
to destroy the sympathy of the United States with the French Republic.

METZ, October 12.--While examining the fortifications to-day with
BISMARCK, I lent him my cigar-holder, and he told me that Prussia would
refuse to entertain any propositions tending to peace until the
Schleswig-Holstein question was definitely settled.

STRASBOURG, October 14--Among the priceless volumes destroyed in the
library here, was a full set of ABBOTT'S NAPOLEON histories. They were
all presentation copies from the author, with autograph inscriptions.
The regret expressed at their destruction is deep-felt and universal.

WINDSOR, Oct. 16th.--I came up to-day with VICTORIA from Balmoral. She
was engaged during most of the trip in reading HORACE GREELEY'S "What I
Know About Farming," with which she is much delighted. She
 said she
thought the satire was finer than SWIFT'S, and wondered the people did
not insist upon GREELEY'S being Governor.

ROME, Oct. 15.--Talking this morning with the Pope, who took breakfast
with me, His Holiness said he had accepted JAMES GORDON BENNETT'S
invitation to come to Washington Heights on a visit, and wanted to know
whether I thought he would be expected to wear his tiara during meals. I
told him that I thought it would not be obligatory.

DUBLIN, Oct. 16.--The Irish Republic was to-day proclaimed at Cork, with
GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN as Emperor. The Fenians say they would prefer a
constitutional monarchy.

PARIS, Oct. 15.--General CLUSERET assured me to-day that though Minister
WASHBURNE speaks French better than a native, yet he has not entirely
forgotten what little English he used to know, and further, that he is
confident it is not that gentleman's intention to make himself Dictator
of France by a _coup d' etat_.

LONG BRANCH, Oct. 22--While smoking to-day with GRANT, I asked him what
he thought of the European complication, and he answered with a most
expressive silence.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: STAYING THE MARCH.

_Liberty._ "HALT!" ]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN IN GOTHAM.

The venerable "Lait Gustise" sees the Sights, under Perplexing
Difficulties.

The native borned Gothamite mite have notissed, a short time since, a
venerable lookin' ex-Statesman, dressed in a becomin' soot of clothes
and a slick lookin' white hat.

The a-four-said honest old man carried a bloo cotton umbreller in one
hand, and an acksminister carpet bag in t'other. He had jest arroven to
the meetropolis on a North River steambote. The reader has probly gessed
by this time, that the man in question was the subscriber.

If he hasen't so surmised, I would inform him that it was. Jess so.
Arrivin' at a well-known tavern, where hash is provided for man and
beast, I handed my carpet bag over the counter.

The clerk at the offis put on rather more airs than a Revenoo offiser.
In fact, he was so full of airs I got a vilent cold sta
ndin' in his
pressence.

"Shan't I take that anshient circus tent?" said he, pintin' to my
umbreller, "and lock it up in the safe?"

I made no reply to this onmanerly interogetory, but strikin' an attitude
of pain, give him one of those gazes which BEN BUTLER allers makes tell,
in tryin' criminal cases.

I looked at that clerk cross-eyed, and it made him squirm.

I wasen't blind--not much.

That clerk wanted to steel _that_ umbreller, to send to HORRIS GREELEY,
so the Filosifer could keep the reign storms of Tammany from spatterin'
his white cote.

I understood his little dodge and nipped it.

"Snowball," said I, addressin' a dark skinned individual with a white
apern, while I was seated at the dinner table, "what in the deuce makes
all your dishes so small?"

"Dem is for one pusson, sah," said he. "Dat is an indiwidual butter
dish, sah. Dem is indiwidual vegetable dishes--and dat's an indiwidual
salt-cellar, sah," said he, pintin' to each piece of crockery.

I was hungry, and the crockery was soon empty.

Seein' a platter of ice cream down the table aways, I got up onto my
feet, and havin' a good long arm, reached for it.

It was awful cold, and sot my stumps to achin'.

I got one holler tooth full of the stuff.

"Snowball," said I, "look here."

"Well, sah?" he replied.

"I've got my tooth full of that cold puddin'," said I, pintin' to the
dish; "please bring me an individual toothpick, so I can dig it out."
He vanished. I coulden't wait, so I undertook to dig it out with my
fork.

A man opposite me, who thot heed play smart, sent word to the
tavern-keeper that I was swollerin' his forks.

Up comes the tavern-keeper, and ketchin' holt of my cote coller, shaked
me out in the middle of the dinin'-room floor.

"What in thunder are you about?" says I.

"Old man," says he, "them forks cost $9.00 a dozen. How many have you
swallered?"

"Not a gol darned fork," hollered I as loud as I could screem. Gittin'
onto my feet, I pulled off my cote and vest, and if I didn't make the
fur fly, and give that 'ere tavern-keeper t
he nisest little polishin'
off mortal man ever become acquainted with, then I don't understand the
roodiments of the English prize ring.

At Central Park, that hily cultivated forrest, the sharpers tried to
chissel me.

Just as I approched the gate which leads into the Park, a fansy lookin'
feller with short hair and plad briches stopt me and says: "Unkle, you'r
fair."

"You're a man of excellent judgment," I replide; "I think I am pooty
good lookin' for a man of my years."

"You don't undertand me, sir," he agin said. "Come down with your
stamps."

"My which?" said I, turnin' a little red in the face.

"Your gate money," he replied, tryin' to shove me back. "We charge $1.00
for goin' in here."

"You do, do you?" said I, wavin' my umbreller over his head
threatenin' manner. "When our goverment resooms speshie payment agin
maybe I'le send you a silver dollar with a hole into it, and maybe I
won't; it will depend a good deal on the pertater crop."

I was very much agitated. Pullin' out my silver watch I says: "My sweet
sented Plumbob, if you don't histe your butes away from that gate in 2
seconds I'le bust your biler with this 'ere bunch of bones," and I
tickled the end of his probocis with my fist, as I gently rubbed it
under his smeller.

He saw heed caught a Tarter, in fact, a regular Tarter emetic, and he
slunk away rather sudden.

I had sent too many of such skinamelinks to the clay banks when I was
Gustice of the Peece to allow 'em to fool me much.

I visited WOOD'S Museum to see the wacks figgers and things.

The statutes of the 12 Apostles attracted my attention.

"And this," said a ministerial long-faced lookin' man, with a white
choker, "is the last supper.--What a sagacious eye has PETER got--How
doubtful THOMAS looks--MATTHEW is in deep thought, probly thinkin' of
the times he was a fisherman. What a _longin'_ look in that astoot
eye," said he, nudgin' me with his gold-headed cane.

"Yes," said I, "he is probly _longin'_ for that 'ere dish of ham and
eggs, in the middle of the table."

"Look at SIMON," 
he continered. "See! his eye rests upon his rite hand,
which is closed beside him on the table. His lips are parted as if he
was going to say--

"SIMON says thumbs up," I quickly replide, interruptin' him. I diden't
mean anything disrespectful to nobody, but that 'ere man flew into a
vilent rage.

"Can it be, that a soul so devoid of poetry lives in this age?" said he.
"My venerable friend, I blush for you--yes, I blush for you, you are
devoid of sentiment."

"Look here, Captin," said I, "you may be a good preacher and all that
sort of thing. Excuse me for sayin' it, you hain't a BEECHER--Skarcely.
H. WARD soots me--He is chock full of sentiment--at the same time he can
relish a joak ekal to the best of us. Mix a little sunshine with that
gloomy lookin' countenance of yours. Don't let people of the world think
they must draw down their faces and colaps, because a man joaks about a
lot of wacks figgers dressed up in 6 penny caliker. Them's the kind of
sentiment which ales me every time." Sayin' which I storked
contemptously out of the wacks figger department.

I shall remain a few days in the big city, friend PUNCHINELLO, and if
the citizens of New York insist on givin' me a reception at the City
Hall, I will submit to the sacrifice, especially if the vitels are well
cookt. Ewers on a scare up,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustice of the Peece._

 * * * * *

THE CENSUS ENUMERATOR'S PLAINT.

 The names that these newspapers call us
 Are hardest of all to surmount,
 They say Mayor HALL may o'erhaul us;
 He claims that our count is no 'count.

 I never had any such trouble
 In registering voters down South,
 I set every <DW65> down double
 And put the whites down in the mouth.

 But here they're so very exacting
 They kick up a row, don't you know?
 Though under instructions we're acting
 In playing our figures "for low."

 I try to play Sharpe in these matters,
 I dodge all the bricks and spittoons--
 (Curse that bull-dog! he's torn to tatters
 The seat of my best pantaloons!)

 A tailor refused me admission,
 And sai
d he "vould shoot mit his gun,"
 So I, out of Shear opposition,
 Counted him and eight others for one.

 While not in the habit of swearing,
 I can't but be slightly profane
 To hear these New Yorkers declaring
 Their names have been taken in vain.

 * * * * *

The most appropriate kind of dish on which to serve up Horseflesh

A Charger.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: SEVERE ON BYRON BUBBS.

_Bubbs_. "DOES YOUR SISTER NETTIE EVER TALK ABOUT ME?"

_Little Rose_. "OH, YES! I HEARD HER TELL MA, YESTERDAY, YOU HAD SUCH A
BEAUTIFUL NECK, SO LONG THAT IT WOULD DO TO TIE IN A DOUBLE BOW-KNOT!"]

 * * * * *

BY GEORGE!

(_Concluded_.)

LAKE GEORGE, N. Y., Sept. 12.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: "SLUKER," continued the long-haired man in an
absent-minded manner, "was a _corker_! there is no mistake about that.

Like the Ghost at BOOTH'S, he was a terror to the peaceful Hamlet. He
was always getting up shindys without the slightest provocation, and was
evidently possessed of the unpleasant ambition, as well as ability, to
whale the entire township in detachments of one.

Things got to be so bad after a while that the bark was rubbed off every
tree in town on account of the people incontinently shinning up them
whenever SLUKER came in sight.

It was no unusual thing to see business entirely suspended for hours,
while SLUKER marched up and down the main street, whistling, with his
hands in his pockets, and every soul in the place, from the minister
down, roosting as high as they could get, six on a branch, sometimes.

Matters went on in this way until one day a little incident occurred
that somewhat discouraged this gentle youth. He had just returned from a
discussion with a butcher, (from the effects of which the latter now
sleeps in the valley,) when a party of his fellow-townsmen entered the
store in which he was loafing, and ordered a coil of half-inch rope from
New York by the morning's train.

It was the Overland route that SLUKER took for California, and when his
aged mother heard that three eyes had been gouged out in one day in t
he
Golden City, she wept tears of joy. Her fond heart told her that the
perilous journey was over, and her darling boy was safe.

After ten years of a brilliant career he bethought him again of the
place of his birth. His heart yearned for the gentle delights,--the
heavy laden trees--of his boyhood's home. He said he must go.

His friends said he must go, too. In fact they had already appointed a
select and vigilant Committee to see him safely on his way.

In some respects SLUKER came back an altered man. The stamp of change
was on his noble face, indeed it had been stamped on itself, until it
looked like a wax doll under a hot stove. But he still retained his
warlike spirit.

There was not so much chance of indulging it now, however. The Fire
Company had disbanded, and nearly every one had grown rich enough to own
a shot-gun. There was only one chance left.

He joined the Presbyterian Choir.

Not that he had much of a voice, though he used to play 'Comin' thro'
the Rye' oh the fiddle sometimes, until he got it going _through him_ so
much he couldn't draw a note.

Nobody would have taken them if he had.

Well, SLUKER had a pretty warm time of it in the Choir, and enjoyed
himself very much, until they got a new Organist who pitched every thing
in 'high C,' which was this young man's strong lead.

As the Choir always sang in G, of coarse, there was a row the first
Sunday, and it was generally understood that SLUKER was going to fix
MIDDLERIB that night.

When the evening service commenced, and the Choir was about to begin,
the congregation were startled by an ominous click in the gallery, and
looking up, they beheld SLUKER covering the Organist's second shirt-stud
with his revolver.

"Give us G, Mr. MIDDLERIB, if you please!" he said blandly.

But the pirate on the high C's refused to Gee, and Whoa was the natural
result.

The confusion that followed was terrible: SLUKER fired at everybody.
MIDDLERIB hit him with the music stool. The soprano was thrown over the
railing, and somebody turned off the gas.

In the ensu
ing darkness every one skirmished for themselves. SLUKER took
off his boots and hunted for MIDDLERIB in his stocking feet.

Suddenly he heard a single note on the 'high C.' He groped his way to
the keyboard, but there was no one there.

The solution rushed upon him,--MIDDLERIB must be _in_ the organ.

He crept round to the handle and bore his weight on it.

It was too true; the unhappy wretch had cut a hole in the bellows and
crawled in. But for his ruling passion he would have escaped.

There were a few muffled groans as the handle slowly descended upon the
doomed man, and as the breath rushed out of his body into his favorite
pipe, the wild 'high C of agony that ran through the sacred edifice
told them that all was over.

Let us draw a vail over the horrid picture."

 * * *

I was very much interested in this story, very much indeed, and so I
jostled the long-haired man--who was about falling asleep--and asked him
if anything was done to this wicked SLUKER.

He looked at me reproachfully. "What's the matter with you, my friend?"
he said, in the same melancholy voice. "Don't you know who I am? I write
for the _Ledger_, and whenever 'I draw a vail, etc.,' that ends it, that
does!"

As we stepped from the steamer to the landing, I observed a youth of
about six summers dressed in the most elaborately agonizing manner. He
had two Schutzenfest targets in his cuffs; in one hand he held an
enormous cane, in the other a cigar, and through an eyeglass he gazed at
the ankles on the gang-plank with an air of patient weariness with this
slow old world that was very touching.

"Where," I exclaimed as I surveyed this show-card of a fast generation,
"O! where have our _children_ vanished? Take from childhood the
sparkling water of its purity--the sugar of its innocent affections--its
ardent but refreshing spirits--and what, ah! what have we left?"

"Nothing," said the melancholy voice at my elbow. "Absolutely nothing
save the mint and the straw!"

And he was right, my dear PUNCHINELLO, he was right.

SAGINAW DODD.

 * * * * *


"SOLEMN SILENCE."

Perhaps very few persons--and especially very few members of the
Republican party--are aware that a monument to ABRAHAM LINCOLN has at
last been completed, and that it has been placed on the site allotted
for it in Union Square. It is very creditable to the Republican Party
that they exercised such control over their feelings when the day for
unveiling the LINCOLN Monument arrived. Some parties might have made a
demonstration on the occasion of post-mortuary honors being accorded to
a leader whom they professed to worship while he lived, and whom they
demi-deified after his death. No such extravagant folly can be laid at
the door of the Republican Party. "Let bygones be bygones" is their
motto. They allowed their "sham ABRAHAM," in heroic bronze, to be
hoisted on to his pedestal in Union Square in solitude and silence. That
was commendable. A live ass is better than a dead lion; and so the
Republican Party, who consider themselves very much alive, went to look
after their daily thistles and left their dead lion in charge of a
policeman.

 * * * * *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

LOTTA is lithe; (which is alliterative,) pretty, piquant, and addicted
to the banjo. The latter characteristic is inseparable from her. In
whatever situation the dramatist may place her, whether in a London
drawing-room or a Cockney kitchen, whether on an Algerian battle-field
or in a California mining-camp, she is certain to produce the inevitable
banjo, and to sing the irrepressible comic song. In fact, her plays are
written not for LOTTA, but for LOTTA'S banjo. The dramatist takes the
presence of the banjo as the central fact of his drama, and weaves his
plot around it. His play is made on the model of that celebrated drama
written to introduce Mr. CRUMMLES'S pump and tubs. Thus does he preserve
the sacred unity of LOTTA and the banjo.

_Heart's Ease_--in which she is now playing at NIBLO'S Garden, is
plainly born of the banjo, and lives for that melodious instrument
alone. The author said to himself, "A California mining-c
amp would be a
nice place for a banjo solo." Wherefore he conceived the camp, with a
chorus of red-shirted miners. Wherefore too, he created a comic Yankee
who should be eccentric enough to bring a banjo to the camp, and a lover
who should be charmed by its touching strains. It required a prologue
and three acts to enable him to successfully introduce the banjo. In a
somewhat condensed form, these acts and this prologue are here set
forth.

PROLOGUE. _A seedy husband who is audaciously palmed upon the public as
a Reasoning Animal is discovered in a London garret, with a
healthy-looking wife, in a rapid consumption_.

REASONING ANIMAL. "I loved you, my dear, and therefore brought you from
a comfortable home to this dreary garret. I cannot bear to leave you, so
I will go out for a walk." (_The bell rings, and the wife's mother,
brother and family physician enter._)

MOTHER. "You must leave your husband and come home and live with us."

BROTHER. "Of course you must. You need not hesitate about a little thing
like that. Go into the other room and consult the Doctor. Here comes
your husband." (_Re-enter_ REASONING ANIMAL.)

REASONING ANIMAL. "Her berrotherr! Herre!"

BROTHER, "Yes. You can't support your wife. The Doctor says she needs
nice parties and other necessaries of life. Give her to us, and go to
California."

REASONING ANIMAL. "I will. Bring her here till I embrace her. (_She is
brought._) Farewell, my dear. I will go and make my fortune."

WIFE. "Take our little girl with you."

REASONING ANIMAL. "I will, for she needs a mother's care. Good-bye!
Leave me to weep and wash the baby's face and hands alone."

ACT I.--_Scene, a California mining-camp. Various miners of assorted
nationalities--one of each--hard at work lying on the ground._

1ST MINER. "I want more whiskey."

CHORUS. "So do we."

2ND MINER. "MAY WILDROSE won't sell any more."

CHORUS. "But she gives it to her lover."

3RD MINER. "He looks clean; he must have found a nugget. Let's kill
him."

4TH MINER. "Sh--we will." (_Enter_ MAY WILDROSE--_which 
her name it is_
MISS LOTTA.)

MAY. "Here comes my darling LIONEL. Let me get you some brandy, love."

LIONEL. "Certainly, my dear. How full of forethought is a true woman's
love!"

CHORUS of MINERS. "She gives it to him, but not to us. Beware, young
woman, or we will go back on you."

MAY. "No you won't. My father earns a laborious living by making me keep
a whiskey shop. We have a monopoly of the business, and you will have to
buy of us, whether you like it or not. Get out of my sight, or I'll lick
the whole boiling of you." (_They fly, and she returns to the parental
whiskey shop._)

LIONEL. "Night is coming on. I will go among the rocks; why, I don't
know, but still I will go." (_Goes. Three miners follow and attack
him._)

LIONEL. "Save me, somebody."

MAY. _Appearing suddenly with a revolver_--"You bet." (_She shoots the
miners and brings down the curtain triumphantly._)

ACT II.--_Scene--the whiskey shop of the_ REASONING ANIMAL.--LIONEL
_asleep on a bed evidently borrowed from some boarding-house--since it
is several feet too short for him_.--MAY _engaged in peeling
potatoes.--Enter_ REASONING ANIMAL.

REASONING ANIMAL. "My daughter! I see you are passionately in love with
LIONEL. Therefore, as I know him to be a fine young fellow, you must
never see him more." (_Enter_ COMIC YANKEE.)

COMIC YANKEE. "Here's your new banjo, Miss MAY. Play us something comic
and depressing."

MAY. "Thank Heaven, I can get at the banjo at last" (_Plays and is
encored a dozen times._)

COMIC YANKEE. "Miss MAY, you must go and take a walk." (_She goes._)
"LIONEL, you are well enough to leave this ranche. Get up and get."

LIONEL. "Farewell, beloved whiskey shop. Tell MAY I am going to leave
her, and give her my sketches. If she once looks at them, she can love
me no longer." (_Goes out to slow music. Re-enter_ MAY.)

MAY. "The wretch has left me without a word. I will bury his infamous
sketches under the floor. They may frighten away the rats." (_Pulls up
the floor and finds an immense nugget. Her father rushes in to see it.
Tw
o miners also see it and try to raise it. They are promptly seen and
called by_ MAY, _who shoots one and holds the pistol pointed at the
other, while the curtain slowly falls._)

ACT III.--_Scene, a London drawing-room. Enter_ MAY, _gorgeously
dressed. Also her father, who has forgotten all about his wife, and
also_ LIONEL _and the_ COMIC YANKEE.

COMIC YANKEE. "Let us sing."

MAY. "Come on, old hoss." (_They sing and dance for an hour, such being
the pleasant custom of fashionable London society._)

MAY. "Miss CLARA! I understand you are engaged to marry LIONEL, and that
if you marry anybody else you lose your dower of twenty thousand pounds.
Sell LIONEL to me, and I will give you a check for the amount."

CLARA. "Thanks, noble stranger, there is the receipt. Hand over the
money."

LIONEL. "Dearest MAY, as you must have a pretty large bank account, to
be able to draw checks for twenty thousand pounds, I am quite sure I
love you."

MAY. "Come to my arms. Now then, everybody, how is that for high!"
(_Slow curtain, relieved by eccentric gymnastics by the_ COMIC YANKEE.)

BOY IN THE AUDIENCE. "Pa! isn't that splendid?"

DISCRIMINATING PARENT. "What! How! Who! Where am I? O, to be sure, I
came to see _Heart's Ease_, and to take my evening nap. Did LOTTA play
the banjo?"

BOY. "O didn't she just. She played and sung dead loads of times."

DISCRIMINATING PARENT. "I have had a sweet nap. My son, I think I can
now risk taking you to the minstrels. If I slept through this, I could
feel reasonably sure of sleeping through even the dark conundrums and
sentimental ballads. There is only a shade of difference between
the two styles of performance, and that slight shade is only burnt
cork."

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

Mural Decorations in Rome.

The "dead walls" of Rome, as we learn from the telegrams, were lately
placarded with immense posters proclaiming the Italian Republic.

Rome being an "Eternal City," we were not previously aware that any of
her walls were dead. If they are, however, it may be that the posters of
the posters
 referred to took that method of bringing them to life again,
which may be looked on as a _post mortem_ proceeding.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE RETORT COURTEOUS.

_Newly-arrived Briton._ "ENGLISH SPARROWS?--IMPOSSIBLE. WHY, THEY CHIRP
THROUGH THEIR LITTLE NOSES LIKE WEGULAR YANKEES."

_Park-Keeper._ "WELL, I DON'T KNOW, BUT IT TAKES TWO MEN AND A CART,
EVERY DAY TO REMOVE THE 'Hs' DROPPED BY THEM ABOUT THE PARK."]

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

PARIS, FIRST WEEK OF THE REPUBLIC, 1870.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: Things are becoming so mixed here that I am thinking
of retiring to Tours with the other tourists. The city is all on the
go--that is to say, the non-combatants are all going out of it as fast
as possible.

GAMBETTA left here the early part of the week, and it was better for him
that he should. I wouldn't give a _sou_ for any of these republicans if
they chance to fall into the clutches of King WILLIAM. It is reported
that he has issued an order for the strangulation of all French children
between the ages of three and five, in reprisal for the treacherous
blowing up of Germans at Laon.

BISMARCK has requested the privilege of cooking ROCHEFORT'S mutton for
him, should he be taken alive when Paris falls. What he means by
"cooking his mutton" has not yet transpired, but it is gloomily
vaticinated that he intends to boil him down. ROCHEFORT mutton with
caper sauce ought to satisfy the epicurean taste of BISMARCK, especially
as ROCHEFORT would cease his caperings from that hour. Late last night
there was an alarm in the city that the whole Prussian army was at
Noisy-le-Sec. As you may have suspected, a noisy demonstration followed
this announcement.

I got out of bed, rang the bell, and requested the _concierge_ to bring
me an auger. The man looked a little astonished at what he undoubtedly
considered a strange request.

For a man to get out of bed in the middle of the night and call for an
auger, was indeed a trifle peculiar. When he brought it, I increased his
astonishment by proceeding to bore a hole through the
 top of my trunk.

"_C'est un imbecile_," said the concierge, retreating a step or two.

"Not much," I retorted, boring away with renewed vigor. Presently the
orifice was made. Into it I thrust an Alpen stock which had accompanied
me in many a toilsome march through Switzerland, and lifting the lid,
took from the cradle of the trunk a star-spangled banner made of silk,
which had been presented to me by the Young Men's Christian Association
of New York, prior to my departure for Europe, as a token of their
esteem for my services in the capacity of a "reformed drunkard." I
fastened the flag to the stock, put my boots, clothes and other
valuables on top of the trunk, and in a voice intended to express my
defiance of King WILLIAM and his German Lagerheads, spoke these words:

 Wave fearless, there, thou standard sheet!
 That Yankee trunk and all it holds
 (Though Prussian hirelings throng each street)
 Is safe beneath thy starry folds!

Saying which I dismissed the humiliated _concierge_, took a drink, blew
out the _bougie_, and sank into the arms of "Tired nature's sweet
restorer."

Instances like the above are quite common among Americans in Paris. It
was only the other day at the depot of the _Chemin de fer du Nord_ that
I saw a sick Bostonian sitting on his trunk outside the gates, waiting
for a chance to get into the train, with a Skye-terrier between his legs
wrapped in the American flag. You easily get accustomed to such sights,
and don't think anything about them.

Yesterday I called at the office of the American Minister. I gave the
porter my card, and asked if "WASH." was in. He eyed me strangely. (Most
people when they first see me generally do. I have thought sometimes
that a certificate of good character posted conspicuously about my
person would obviate this--but as they say here, "_n' importe_.")

"I'll see," said the porter, in reply to my question. He walked off,
taking with him the door mat, an umbrella that stood in the hall, four
coats and three hats that hung on the rack, besides numerous other s
mall
portable articles of _vertu_ that would have come handy for a
professional "lifter."

I did not consider this movement a reflection upon my character, for it
seemed but appropriate that he should do it. "What," said I to myself,
"are porters for, but to remove portable articles?"

"WASH" was in, and fortunately for me, too, as I obtained a bit of news
that has not yet been printed in the cable dispatches from "Private
Sources."

It came by letter from General FORSYTH, SHERIDAN'S aide-de-camp and Lord
High Chamberlain, and was to the effect that SHERIDAN had not tasted a
drop of whiskey or uttered an oath since landing in Germany. WASH, asked
me to communicate the fact to you with the request that you would
forward it to the "Society for the Encouragement of Practical Piety" at
Boston. He also told me that, between looking after German interests in
Paris and receiving ovations from enthusiastic mobs, he didn't think he
could do justice to his salary.

"WASH," says I, "it isn't so much that, as it is that the salary doesn't
do justice to you. If that's the case speak right out; PUNCHINELLO can
fix it for you." This took WASH. so suddenly that he couldn't speak, but
his eyes were running over with language. Don't move in the matter,
however, till you hear from me again, when I shall have something more
to tell you about the march of the Prussians to this capital, and the
capital march I propose to make out of it.

Yours, in a revolutionary state, DICK TINTO.

 * * * * *

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

MONSIEUR SYLVESTRE. By GEORGE SAND. Boston: ROBERTS BROTHERS.

A welcome version of one of Madame DUDEVANT'S novels, well rendered into
English by Mr. F.G. SHAW. It is issued in very neat and attractive
form, and is one of a series of the SAND novels, publishing by Messrs.
ROBERTS.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Are offering |
 | |
 | A SPLENDID COLLECTION OF |
 | |
 | NEW SILKS, |
 | |
 | The largest they have ever offered, |
 | |
 | BLACK AND WHITE CH
ECK SILKS, |
 | |
 | $1 per yard. |
 | |
 | RAYE GROS GRAINS, |
 | |
 | $l per yard. |
 | |
 | EXTRA HEAVY RAYE GROS GRAINS, |
 | |
 | FOR SUITS, $1.25 per yard. |
 | |
 | A VERY LARGE COLLECTION OF NEW CANNELE STRIPES, |
 | |
 | For young ladies, $1.50 per yard. |
 | |
 | 2 CASES GRISALE STRIPES, EXCELLENT QUALITIES, |
 | |
 | $1.25 per yard. |
 | |
 | EXTRAORDINARY BARGAINS IN |
 | |
 | Rich Wide Fancy Silks, Only $2 per yard, Formerly $4 and $5 |
 | per yard. |
 | |
 | A Choice assortment of Very Rich Ground |
 | |
 | POMPADOUR BROCADES. |
 | |
 | ALSO, |
 | |
 | Hand-Embroidered Silks. |
 | |
 | VERY BEAUTIFUL. |
 | |
 | Five Hundred Pieces |
 | |
 | PLAIN & SILKS, |
 | |
 | Comprising all the newest shades, |
 | |
 | From $2.60 per yard. |
 | |
 | Several Cases of the Celebrated |
 | |
 | American-Black Silks, |
 | |
 | At $2 per yard. |
 | |
 | Guaranteed to wash and wear well. |
 | |
 | An immense stock of |
 | |
 | BLACK SILKS, |
 | |
 | Of Bonnet's and Ponson's manufacture. |
 | |
 | Also, the A. T. S. & Co. |
 | |
 | FAMILY SILK, |
 | |
 | From $2 per yard and upward. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Have made large additions to their stock of Five-Frame |
 | |
 | ENGLISH BRUSSELS, |
 | |
 | $1.75 per yard. |
 | |
 | English Brussels, |
 | |
 | Confined Styles, $2 per yard. |
 | |
 | Very Best Quality |
 | |
 | ENGLISH TAPESTRY BRUSSELS |
 | |
 | $1.30 per yard. |
 | |
 | FRENCH MOQUETTES |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | AXMINSTERS |
 | |
 | $3.50 and $4 per yard. |
 | |
 | ROYAL WILTONS, |
 | |
 | Best Quality, $2.60 and $3 per yard. |
 | |
 | CROSSLEY'S VELVETS, |
 | |
 | Choice Designs, $2.50 per yard. |
 | |
 | And they are receiving by each and every steamer, |
 | |
 | NOVELTIES, |
 | |
 | as they appear. |
 | |
 | Superfine Ingrains, 3-Plys. |
 | |
 | English and Domestic |
 | |
 | OILCLOTHS, RUGS, MATS, ETC., |
 | |
 | At Reduced Prices. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 
| 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of the kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | " " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00 |
 | Single copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 by 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-5/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens; |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | Pointer and Quail; Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; The Unconscious Sleeper; The Two |
 | Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-3/4. |
 | Spring; Summer: Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. ll x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13 x 18. |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9-1/8 x 4-1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one ye
ar and Six American Landscapes. |
 | (A set.) 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 | Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter, in |
 | advance; the CHROMOS will be mailed free on receipt of |
 | money. |
 | |
 | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be |
 | given. For special terms address the Company. |
 | |
 | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of |
 | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A |
 | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or |
 | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: _Butcher_, "HA! I SHOULD LIKE TO CATCH THE DOG
THAT PLAYED ME THAT 'ERE TRICK!--I'D BULLETIN HIM!"]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "THE PRINTING HOUSE OF THE UNITED STATES" |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | "THE UNITED STATES ENVELOPE MANUFACTORY." |
 | |
 | GEORGE F. NESBITT & CO |
 | |
 | 163, 165, 167, 169 Pearl St., & 73,75,77,79 Pine St., |
 | |
 | New York. |
 | |
 | Execute all kinds of |
 | |
 | PRINTING, |
 | |
 | Furnish all kinds of |
 | |
 | STATIONERY, |
 | |
 | Make all kinds of |
 | |
 | BLANK BOOKS, |
 | |
 | Execute the finest styles of |
 | |
 | LITHOGRAPHY |
 | |
 | Make the
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Dennis McCarthy

THE DIVINE COMEDY

OF DANTE ALIGHIERI
(1265-1321)

TRANSLATED BY
HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW
(1807-1882)

CANTICLE I: INFERNO

CREDITS

The base text for this edition has been provided by Digital Dante, a
project sponsored by Columbia University's Institute for Learning
Technologies. Specific thanks goes to Jennifer Hogan (Project
Editor/Director), Tanya Larkin (Assistant to Editor), Robert W. Cole
(Proofreader/Assistant Editor), and Jennifer Cook (Proofreader).

The Digital Dante Project is a digital 'study space' for Dante studies and
scholarship. The project is multi-faceted and fluid by nature of the Web.
Digital Dante attempts to organize the information most significant for
students first engaging with Dante and scholars researching Dante. The
digital of Digital Dante incurs a new challenge to the student, the
scholar, and teacher, perusing the Web: to become proficient in the new
tools, e.g., Search, the Discussion Group, well enough to look beyond the
technology and delve into the content. For more information and access to
the project, please visit its web site at:
http://www.ilt.columbia.edu/projects/dante/

For this Project Gutenberg edition the e-text was rechecked. The editor
greatly thanks Dian McCarthy for her assistance in proofreading the
Paradiso. Also deserving praise are Herbert Fann for programming the text
editor "Desktop Tools/Edit" and the late August Dvorak for designing his
keyboard layout. Please refer to Project Gutenberg's e-text listings for
other editions or translations of 'The Divine Comedy.' For this three part
edition of 'The Divine Comedy' please refer to the end of the Paradiso for
supplemental materials.

Dennis McCarthy, July 1997
imprimatur@juno.com

CONTENTS

Inferno

 I. The Dark Forest. The Hill of Difficulty. The Panther,
 the Lion, and the Wolf. Virgil.
 II. The Descent. Dante's Protest and Virgil's Appeal.
 The Intercession of the Three Ladies Benedight.
 III. The Gate of Hell. The Inefficient or Indifferent.
 Pope Celestine V. The Shores o
f Acheron. Charon.
 The Earthquake and the Swoon.
 IV. The First Circle, Limbo: Virtuous Pagans and the Unbaptized.
 The Four Poets, Homer, Horace, Ovid, and Lucan. The Noble
 Castle of Philosophy.
 V. The Second Circle: The Wanton. Minos. The Infernal Hurricane.
 Francesca da Rimini.
 VI. The Third Circle: The Gluttonous. Cerberus. The Eternal Rain.
 Ciacco. Florence.
 VII. The Fourth Circle: The Avaricious and the Prodigal.
 Plutus. Fortune and her Wheel. The Fifth Circle:
 The Irascible and the Sullen. Styx.
 VIII. Phlegyas. Philippo Argenti. The Gate of the City of Dis.
 IX. The Furies and Medusa. The Angel. The City of Dis.
 The Sixth Circle: Heresiarchs.
 X. Farinata and Cavalcante de' Cavalcanti. Discourse on the
 Knowledge of the Damned.
 XI. The Broken Rocks. Pope Anastasius. General Description of
 the Inferno and its Divisions.
 XII. The Minotaur. The Seventh Circle: The Violent.
 The River Phlegethon. The Violent against their Neighbours.
 The Centaurs. Tyrants.
 XIII. The Wood of Thorns. The Harpies. The Violent
 against themselves. Suicides. Pier della Vigna.
 Lano and Jacopo da Sant' Andrea.
 XIV. The Sand Waste and the Rain of Fire. The Violent against God.
 Capaneus. The Statue of Time, and the Four Infernal Rivers.
 XV. The Violent against Nature. Brunetto Latini.
 XVI. Guidoguerra, Aldobrandi, and Rusticucci. Cataract of
 the River of Blood.
 XVII. Geryon. The Violent against Art. Usurers. Descent into
 the Abyss of Malebolge.
 XVIII. The Eighth Circle, Malebolge: The Fraudulent and
 the Malicious. The First Bolgia: Seducers and Panders.
 Venedico Caccianimico. Jason. The Second Bolgia:
 Flatterers. Allessio Interminelli. Thais.
 XIX. The Third Bolgia: Simoniacs. Pope Nicholas III.
 Dante's Reproof of corrupt Prelates.
 XX. The Fourth Bolgia: Soothsayers. Amphiaraus, Tiresias, Aruns,
 Manto, Eryphylus, Michael Scott, Guido Bonatti, and Asdente.
 Virgil reproaches Dante's Pity. Mantua's Foundation.
 XXI. The Fifth Bolgia: Peculators. The Elder of Santa Zita.
 Malacoda and other Devils.
 XXII. Ci
ampolo, Friar Gomita, and Michael Zanche.
 The Malabranche quarrel.
 XXIII. Escape from the Malabranche. The Sixth Bolgia: Hypocrites.
 Catalano and Loderingo. Caiaphas.
 XXIV. The Seventh Bolgia: Thieves. Vanni Fucci. Serpents.
 XXV. Vanni Fucci's Punishment. Agnello Brunelleschi,
 Buoso degli Abati, Puccio Sciancato, Cianfa de' Donati,
 and Guercio Cavalcanti.
 XXVI. The Eighth Bolgia: Evil Counsellors. Ulysses and Diomed.
 Ulysses' Last Voyage.
 XXVII. Guido da Montefeltro. His deception by Pope Boniface VIII.
XXVIII. The Ninth Bolgia: Schismatics. Mahomet and Ali.
 Pier da Medicina, Curio, Mosca, and Bertrand de Born.
 XXIX. Geri del Bello. The Tenth Bolgia: Alchemists.
 Griffolino d' Arezzo and Capocchino.
 XXX. Other Falsifiers or Forgers. Gianni Schicchi, Myrrha,
 Adam of Brescia, Potiphar's Wife, and Sinon of Troy.
 XXXI. The Giants, Nimrod, Ephialtes, and Antaeus.
 Descent to Cocytus.
 XXXII. The Ninth Circle: Traitors. The Frozen Lake of Cocytus.
 First Division, Caina: Traitors to their Kindred.
 Camicion de' Pazzi. Second Division, Antenora:
 Traitors to their Country. Dante questions
 Bocca degli Abati. Buoso da Duera.
XXXIII. Count Ugolino and the Archbishop Ruggieri. The Death
 of Count Ugolino's Sons. Third Division of the Ninth Circle,
 Ptolomaea: Traitors to their Friends. Friar Alberigo,
 Branco d' Oria.
 XXXIV. Fourth Division of the Ninth Circle, the Judecca:
 Traitors to their Lords and Benefactors. Lucifer,
 Judas Iscariot, Brutus, and Cassius. The Chasm of Lethe.
 The Ascent.

Incipit Comoedia Dantis Alagherii,
Florentini natione, non moribus.

The Divine Comedy
translated by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
(e-text courtesy ILT's Digital Dante Project)

INFERNO

Inferno: Canto I

Midway upon the journey of our life
 I found myself within a forest dark,
 For the straightforward pathway had been lost.

Ah me! how hard a thing it is to say
 What was this forest savage, rough, and stern,
 Which in the very thought renews the fear.

So bitter is it, death is little more;
 But of the good to treat, w
hich there I found,
 Speak will I of the other things I saw there.

I cannot well repeat how there I entered,
 So full was I of slumber at the moment
 In which I had abandoned the true way.

But after I had reached a mountain's foot,
 At that point where the valley terminated,
 Which had with consternation pierced my heart,

Upward I looked, and I beheld its shoulders,
 Vested already with that planet's rays
 Which leadeth others right by every road.

Then was the fear a little quieted
 That in my heart's lake had endured throughout
 The night, which I had passed so piteously.

And even as he, who, with distressful breath,
 Forth issued from the sea upon the shore,
 Turns to the water perilous and gazes;

So did my soul, that still was fleeing onward,
 Turn itself back to re-behold the pass
 Which never yet a living person left.

After my weary body I had rested,
 The way resumed I on the desert <DW72>,
 So that the firm foot ever was the lower.

And lo! almost where the ascent began,
 A panther light and swift exceedingly,
 Which with a spotted skin was covered o'er!

And never moved she from before my face,
 Nay, rather did impede so much my way,
 That many times I to return had turned.

The time was the beginning of the morning,
 And up the sun was mounting with those stars
 That with him were, what time the Love Divine

At first in motion set those beauteous things;
 So were to me occasion of good hope,
 The variegated skin of that wild beast,

The hour of time, and the delicious season;
 But not so much, that did not give me fear
 A lion's aspect which appeared to me.

He seemed as if against me he were coming
 With head uplifted, and with ravenous hunger,
 So that it seemed the air was afraid of him;

And a she-wolf, that with all hungerings
 Seemed to be laden in her meagreness,
 And many folk has caused to live forlorn!

She brought upon me so much heaviness,
 With the affright that from her aspect came,
 That I the hope relinquished of the height.

And as he is who willingly acquires,
 And the time comes
 that causes him to lose,
 Who weeps in all his thoughts and is despondent,

E'en such made me that beast withouten peace,
 Which, coming on against me by degrees
 Thrust me back thither where the sun is silent.

While I was rushing downward to the lowland,
 Before mine eyes did one present himself,
 Who seemed from long-continued silence hoarse.

When I beheld him in the desert vast,
 "Have pity on me," unto him I cried,
 "Whiche'er thou art, or shade or real man!"

He answered me: "Not man; man once I was,
 And both my parents were of Lombardy,
 And Mantuans by country both of them.

'Sub Julio' was I born, though it was late,
 And lived at Rome under the good Augustus,
 During the time of false and lying gods.

A poet was I, and I sang that just
 Son of Anchises, who came forth from Troy,
 After that Ilion the superb was burned.

But thou, why goest thou back to such annoyance?
 Why climb'st thou not the Mount Delectable,
 Which is the source and cause of every joy?"

"Now, art thou that Virgilius and that fountain
 Which spreads abroad so wide a river of speech?"
 I made response to him with bashful forehead.

"O, of the other poets honour and light,
 Avail me the long study and great love
 That have impelled me to explore thy volume!

Thou art my master, and my author thou,
 Thou art alone the one from whom I took
 The beautiful style that has done honour to me.

Behold the beast, for which I have turned back;
 Do thou protect me from her, famous Sage,
 For she doth make my veins and pulses tremble."

"Thee it behoves to take another road,"
 Responded he, when he beheld me weeping,
 "If from this savage place thou wouldst escape;

Because this beast, at which thou criest out,
 Suffers not any one to pass her way,
 But so doth harass him, that she destroys him;

And has a nature so malign and ruthless,
 That never doth she glut her greedy will,
 And after food is hungrier than before.

Many the animals with whom she weds,
 And more they shall be still, until the Greyhound
 Comes, who shall make her perish in 
her pain.

He shall not feed on either earth or pelf,
 But upon wisdom, and on love and virtue;
 'Twixt Feltro and Feltro shall his nation be;

Of that low Italy shall he be the saviour,
 On whose account the maid Camilla died,
 Euryalus, Turnus, Nisus, of their wounds;

Through every city shall he hunt her down,
 Until he shall have driven her back to Hell,
 There from whence envy first did let her loose.

Therefore I think and judge it for thy best
 Thou follow me, and I will be thy guide,
 And lead thee hence through the eternal place,

Where thou shalt hear the desperate lamentations,
 Shalt see the ancient spirits disconsolate,
 Who cry out each one for the second death;

And thou shalt see those who contented are
 Within the fire, because they hope to come,
 Whene'er it may be, to the blessed people;

To whom, then, if thou wishest to ascend,
 A soul shall be for that than I more worthy;
 With her at my departure I will leave thee;

Because that Emperor, who reigns above,
 In that I was rebellious to his law,
 Wills that through me none come into his city.

He governs everywhere, and there he reigns;
 There is his city and his lofty throne;
 O happy he whom thereto he elects!"

And I to him: "Poet, I thee entreat,
 By that same God whom thou didst never know,
 So that I may escape this woe and worse,

Thou wouldst conduct me there where thou hast said,
 That I may see the portal of Saint Peter,
 And those thou makest so disconsolate."

Then he moved on, and I behind him followed.

Inferno: Canto II

Day was departing, and the embrowned air
 Released the animals that are on earth
 From their fatigues; and I the only one

Made myself ready to sustain the war,
 Both of the way and likewise of the woe,
 Which memory that errs not shall retrace.

O Muses, O high genius, now assist me!
 O memory, that didst write down what I saw,
 Here thy nobility shall be manifest!

And I began: "Poet, who guidest me,
 Regard my manhood, if it be sufficient,
 Ere to the arduous pass thou dost confide me.

Thou sayest, that of S
ilvius the parent,
 While yet corruptible, unto the world
 Immortal went, and was there bodily.

But if the adversary of all evil
 Was courteous, thinking of the high effect
 That issue would from him, and who, and what,

To men of intellect unmeet it seems not;
 For he was of great Rome, and of her empire
 In the empyreal heaven as father chosen;

The which and what, wishing to speak the truth,
 Were stablished as the holy place, wherein
 Sits the successor of the greatest Peter.

Upon this journey, whence thou givest him vaunt,
 Things did he hear, which the occasion were
 Both of his victory and the papal mantle.

Thither went afterwards the Chosen Vessel,
 To bring back comfort thence unto that Faith,
 Which of salvation's way is the beginning.

But I, why thither come, or who concedes it?
 I not Aeneas am, I am not Paul,
 Nor I, nor others, think me worthy of it.

Therefore, if I resign myself to come,
 I fear the coming may be ill-advised;
 Thou'rt wise, and knowest better than I speak."

And as he is, who unwills what he willed,
 And by new thoughts doth his intention change,
 So that from his design he quite withdraws,

Such I became, upon that dark hillside,
 Because, in thinking, I consumed the emprise,
 Which was so very prompt in the beginning.

"If I have well thy language understood,"
 Replied that shade of the Magnanimous,
 "Thy soul attainted is with cowardice,

Which many times a man encumbers so,
 It turns him back from honoured enterprise,
 As false sight doth a beast, when he is shy.

That thou mayst free thee from this apprehension,
 I'll tell thee why I came, and what I heard
 At the first moment when I grieved for thee.

Among those was I who are in suspense,
 And a fair, saintly Lady called to me
 In such wise, I besought her to command me.

Her eyes where shining brighter than the Star;
 And she began to say, gentle and low,
 With voice angelical, in her own language:

'O spirit courteous of Mantua,
 Of whom the fame still in the world endures,
 And shall endure, long-lasting as the world
;

A friend of mine, and not the friend of fortune,
 Upon the desert <DW72> is so impeded
 Upon his way, that he has turned through terror,

And may, I fear, already be so lost,
 That I too late have risen to his succour,
 From that which I have heard of him in Heaven.

Bestir thee now, and with thy speech ornate,
 And with what needful is for his release,
 Assist him so, that I may be consoled.

Beatrice am I, who do bid thee go;
 I come from there, where I would fain return;
 Love moved me, which compelleth me to speak.

When I shall be in presence of my Lord,
 Full often will I praise thee unto him.'
 Then paused she, and thereafter I began:

'O Lady of virtue, thou alone through whom
 The human race exceedeth all contained
 Within the heaven that has the lesser circles,

So grateful unto me is thy commandment,
 To obey, if 'twere already done, were late;
 No farther need'st thou ope to me thy wish.

But the cause tell me why thou dost not shun
 The here descending down into this centre,
 From the vast place thou burnest to return to.'

'Since thou wouldst fain so inwardly discern,
 Briefly will I relate,' she answered me,
 'Why I am not afraid to enter here.

Of those things only should one be afraid
 Which have the power of doing others harm;
 Of the rest, no; because they are not fearful.

God in his mercy such created me
 That misery of yours attains me not,
 Nor any flame assails me of this burning.

A gentle Lady is in Heaven, who grieves
 At this impediment, to which I send thee,
 So that stern judgment there above is broken.

In her entreaty she besought Lucia,
 And said, "Thy faithful one now stands in need
 Of thee, and unto thee I recommend him."

Lucia, foe of all that cruel is,
 Hastened away, and came unto the place
 Where I was sitting with the ancient Rachel.

"Beatrice" said she, "the true praise of God,
 Why succourest thou not him, who loved thee so,
 For thee he issued from the vulgar herd?

Dost thou not hear the pity of his plaint?
 Dost thou not see the death that combats him
 Beside tha
t flood, where ocean has no vaunt?"

Never were persons in the world so swift
 To work their weal and to escape their woe,
 As I, after such words as these were uttered,

Came hither downward from my blessed seat,
 Confiding in thy dignified discourse,
 Which honours thee, and those who've listened to it.'

After she thus had spoken unto me,
 Weeping, her shining eyes she turned away;
 Whereby she made me swifter in my coming;

And unto thee I came, as she desired;
 I have delivered thee from that wild beast,
 Which barred the beautiful mountain's short ascent.

What is it, then? Why, why dost thou delay?
 Why is such baseness bedded in thy heart?
 Daring and hardihood why hast thou not,

Seeing that three such Ladies benedight
 Are caring for thee in the court of Heaven,
 And so much good my speech doth promise thee?"

Even as the flowerets, by nocturnal chill,
 Bowed down and closed, when the sun whitens them,
 Uplift themselves all open on their stems;

Such I became with my exhausted strength,
 And such good courage to my heart there coursed,
 That I began, like an intrepid person:

"O she compassionate, who succoured me,
 And courteous thou, who hast obeyed so soon
 The words of truth which she addressed to thee!

Thou hast my heart so with desire disposed
 To the adventure, with these words of thine,
 That to my first intent I have returned.

Now go, for one sole will is in us both,
 Thou Leader, and thou Lord, and Master thou."
 Thus said I to him; and when he had moved,

I entered on the deep and savage way.

Inferno: Canto III

"Through me the way is to the city dolent;
 Through me the way is to eternal dole;
 Through me the way among the people lost.

Justice incited my sublime Creator;
 Created me divine Omnipotence,
 The highest Wisdom and the primal Love.

Before me there were no created things,
 Only eterne, and I eternal last.
 All hope abandon, ye who enter in!"

These words in sombre colour I beheld
 Written upon the summit of a gate;
 Whence I: "Their sense is, Master, hard to me!"

And he to me
, as one experienced:
 "Here all suspicion needs must be abandoned,
 All cowardice must needs be here extinct.

We to the place have come, where I have told thee
 Thou shalt behold the people dolorous
 Who have foregone the good of intellect."

And after he had laid his hand on mine
 With joyful mien, whence I was comforted,
 He led me in among the secret things.

There sighs, complaints, and ululations loud
 Resounded through the air without a star,
 Whence I, at the beginning, wept thereat.

Languages diverse, horrible dialects,
 Accents of anger, words of agony,
 And voices high and hoarse, with sound of hands,

Made up a tumult that goes whirling on
 For ever in that air for ever black,
 Even as the sand doth, when the whirlwind breathes.

And I, who had my head with horror bound,
 Said: "Master, what is this which now I hear?
 What folk is this, which seems by pain so vanquished?"

And he to me: "This miserable mode
 Maintain the melancholy souls of those
 Who lived withouten infamy or praise.

Commingled are they with that caitiff choir
 Of Angels, who have not rebellious been,
 Nor faithful were to God, but were for self.

The heavens expelled them, not to be less fair;
 Nor them the nethermore abyss receives,
 For glory none the damned would have from them."

And I: "O Master, what so grievous is
 To these, that maketh them lament so sore?"
 He answered: "I will tell thee very briefly.

These have no longer any hope of death;
 And this blind life of theirs is so debased,
 They envious are of every other fate.

No fame of them the world permits to be;
 Misericord and Justice both disdain them.
 Let us not speak of them, but look, and pass."

And I, who looked again, beheld a banner,
 Which, whirling round, ran on so rapidly,
 That of all pause it seemed to me indignant;

And after it there came so long a train
 Of people, that I ne'er would have believed
 That ever Death so many had undone.

When some among them I had recognised,
 I looked, and I beheld the shade of him
 Who made through cowardice the grea
t refusal.

Forthwith I comprehended, and was certain,
 That this the sect was of the caitiff wretches
 Hateful to God and to his enemies.

These miscreants, who never were alive,
 Were naked, and were stung exceedingly
 By gadflies and by hornets that were there.

These did their faces irrigate with blood,
 Which, with their tears commingled, at their feet
 By the disgusting worms was gathered up.

And when to gazing farther I betook me.
 People I saw on a great river's bank;
 Whence said I: "Master, now vouchsafe to me,

That I may know who these are, and what law
 Makes them appear so ready to pass over,
 As I discern athwart the dusky light."

And he to me: "These things shall all be known
 To thee, as soon as we our footsteps stay
 Upon the dismal shore of Acheron."

Then with mine eyes ashamed and downward cast,
 Fearing my words might irksome be to him,
 From speech refrained I till we reached the river.

And lo! towards us coming in a boat
 An old man, hoary with the hair of eld,
 Crying: "Woe unto you, ye souls depraved!

Hope nevermore to look upon the heavens;
 I come to lead you to the other shore,
 To the eternal shades in heat and frost.

And thou, that yonder standest, living soul,
 Withdraw thee from these people, who are dead!"
 But when he saw that I did not withdraw,

He said: "By other ways, by other ports
 Thou to the shore shalt come, not here, for passage;
 A lighter vessel needs must carry thee."

And unto him the Guide: "Vex thee not, Charon;
 It is so willed there where is power to do
 That which is willed; and farther question not."

Thereat were quieted the fleecy cheeks
 Of him the ferryman of the livid fen,
 Who round about his eyes had wheels of flame.

But all those souls who weary were and naked
 Their colour changed and gnashed their teeth together,
 As soon as they had heard those cruel words.

God they blasphemed and their progenitors,
 The human race, the place, the time, the seed
 Of their engendering and of their birth!

Thereafter all together they drew back,
 Bitterly weep
ing, to the accursed shore,
 Which waiteth every man who fears not God.

Charon the demon, with the eyes of glede,
 Beckoning to them, collects them all together,
 Beats with his oar whoever lags behind.

As in the autumn-time the leaves fall off,
 First one and then another, till the branch
 Unto the earth surrenders all its spoils;

In similar wise the evil seed of Adam
 Throw themselves from that margin one by one,
 At signals, as a bird unto its lure.

So they depart across the dusky wave,
 And ere upon the other side they land,
 Again on this side a new troop assembles.

"My son," the courteous Master said to me,
 "All those who perish in the wrath of God
 Here meet together out of every land;

And ready are they to pass o'er the river,
 Because celestial Justice spurs them on,
 So that their fear is turned into desire.

This way there never passes a good soul;
 And hence if Charon doth complain of thee,
 Well mayst thou know now what his speech imports."

This being finished, all the dusk champaign
 Trembled so violently, that of that terror
 The recollection bathes me still with sweat.

The land of tears gave forth a blast of wind,
 And fulminated a vermilion light,
 Which overmastered in me every sense,

And as a man whom sleep hath seized I fell.

Inferno: Canto IV

Broke the deep lethargy within my head
 A heavy thunder, so that I upstarted,
 Like to a person who by force is wakened;

And round about I moved my rested eyes,
 Uprisen erect, and steadfastly I gazed,
 To recognise the place wherein I was.

True is it, that upon the verge I found me
 Of the abysmal valley dolorous,
 That gathers thunder of infinite ululations.

Obscure, profound it was, and nebulous,
 So that by fixing on its depths my sight
 Nothing whatever I discerned therein.

"Let us descend now into the blind world,"
 Began the Poet, pallid utterly;
 "I will be first, and thou shalt second be."

And I, who of his colour was aware,
 Said: "How shall I come, if thou art afraid,
 Who'rt wont to be a comfort to my fears?"

And he to me: "
The anguish of the people
 Who are below here in my face depicts
 That pity which for terror thou hast taken.

Let us go on, for the long way impels us."
 Thus he went in, and thus he made me enter
 The foremost circle that surrounds the abyss.

There, as it seemed to me from listening,
 Were lamentations none, but only sighs,
 That tremble made the everlasting air.

And this arose from sorrow without torment,
 Which the crowds had, that many were and great,
 Of infants and of women and of men.

To me the Master good: "Thou dost not ask
 What spirits these, which thou beholdest, are?
 Now will I have thee know, ere thou go farther,

That they sinned not; and if they merit had,
 'Tis not enough, because they had not baptism
 Which is the portal of the Faith thou holdest;

And if they were before Christianity,
 In the right manner they adored not God;
 And among such as these am I myself.

For such defects, and not for other guilt,
 Lost are we and are only so far punished,
 That without hope we live on in desire."

Great grief seized on my heart when this I heard,
 Because some people of much worthiness
 I knew, who in that Limbo were suspended.

"Tell me, my Master, tell me, thou my Lord,"
 Began I, with desire of being certain
 Of that Faith which o'ercometh every error,

"Came any one by his own merit hence,
 Or by another's, who was blessed thereafter?"
 And he, who understood my covert speech,

Replied: "I was a novice in this state,
 When I saw hither come a Mighty One,
 With sign of victory incoronate.

Hence he drew forth the shade of the First Parent,
 And that of his son Abel, and of Noah,
 Of Moses the lawgiver, and the obedient

Abraham, patriarch, and David, king,
 Israel with his father and his children,
 And Rachel, for whose sake he did so much,

And others many, and he made them blessed;
 And thou must know, that earlier than these
 Never were any human spirits saved."

We ceased not to advance because he spake,
 But still were passing onward through the forest,
 The forest, say I, of thick-crowde
d ghosts.

Not very far as yet our way had gone
 This side the summit, when I saw a fire
 That overcame a hemisphere of darkness.

We were a little distant from it still,
 But not so far that I in part discerned not
 That honourable people held that place.

"O thou who honourest every art and science,
 Who may these be, which such great honour have,
 That from the fashion of the rest it parts them?"

And he to me: "The honourable name,
 That sounds of them above there in thy life,
 Wins grace in Heaven, that so advances them."

In the mean time a voice was heard by me:
 "All honour be to the pre-eminent Poet;
 His shade returns again, that was departed."

After the voice had ceased and quiet was,
 Four mighty shades I saw approaching us;
 Semblance had they nor sorrowful nor glad.

To say to me began my gracious Master:
 "Him with that falchion in his hand behold,
 Who comes before the three, even as their lord.

That one is Homer, Poet sovereign;
 He who comes next is Horace, the satirist;
 The third is Ovid, and the last is Lucan.

Because to each of these with me applies
 The name that solitary voice proclaimed,
 They do me honour, and in that do well."

Thus I beheld assemble the fair school
 Of that lord of the song pre-eminent,
 Who o'er the others like an eagle soars.

When they together had discoursed somewhat,
 They turned to me with signs of salutation,
 And on beholding this, my Master smiled;

And more of honour still, much more, they did me,
 In that they made me one of their own band;
 So that the sixth was I, 'mid so much wit.

Thus we went on as far as to the light,
 Things saying 'tis becoming to keep silent,
 As was the saying of them where I was.

We came unto a noble castle's foot,
 Seven times encompassed with lofty walls,
 Defended round by a fair rivulet;

This we passed over even as firm ground;
 Through portals seven I entered with these Sages;
 We came into a meadow of fresh verdure.

People were there with solemn eyes and slow,
 Of great authority in their countenance;
 They spake but s
eldom, and with gentle voices.

Thus we withdrew ourselves upon one side
 Into an opening luminous and lofty,
 So that they all of them were visible.

There opposite, upon the green enamel,
 Were pointed out to me the mighty spirits,
 Whom to have seen I feel myself exalted.

I saw Electra with companions many,
 'Mongst whom I knew both Hector and Aeneas,
 Caesar in armour with gerfalcon eyes;

I saw Camilla and Penthesilea
 On the other side, and saw the King Latinus,
 Who with Lavinia his daughter sat;

I saw that Brutus who drove Tarquin forth,
 Lucretia, Julia, Marcia, and Cornelia,
 And saw alone, apart, the Saladin.

When I had lifted up my brows a little,
 The Master I beheld of those who know,
 Sit with his philosophic family.

All gaze upon him, and all do him honour.
 There I beheld both Socrates and Plato,
 Who nearer him before the others stand;

Democritus, who puts the world on chance,
 Diogenes, Anaxagoras, and Thales,
 Zeno, Empedocles, and Heraclitus;

Of qualities I saw the good collector,
 Hight Dioscorides; and Orpheus saw I,
 Tully and Livy, and moral Seneca,

Euclid, geometrician, and Ptolemy,
 Galen, Hippocrates, and Avicenna,
 Averroes, who the great Comment made.

I cannot all of them pourtray in full,
 Because so drives me onward the long theme,
 That many times the word comes short of fact.

The sixfold company in two divides;
 Another way my sapient Guide conducts me
 Forth from the quiet to the air that trembles;

And to a place I come where nothing shines.

Inferno: Canto V

Thus I descended out of the first circle
 Down to the second, that less space begirds,
 And so much greater dole, that goads to wailing.

There standeth Minos horribly, and snarls;
 Examines the transgressions at the entrance;
 Judges, and sends according as he girds him.

I say, that when the spirit evil-born
 Cometh before him, wholly it confesses;
 And this discriminator of transgressions

Seeth what place in Hell is meet for it;
 Girds himself with his tail as many times
 As grades he wishes it should be thru
st down.

Always before him many of them stand;
 They go by turns each one unto the judgment;
 They speak, and hear, and then are downward hurled.

"O thou, that to this dolorous hostelry
 Comest," said Minos to me, when he saw me,
 Leaving the practice of so great an office,

"Look how thou enterest, and in whom thou trustest;
 Let not the portal's amplitude deceive thee."
 And unto him my Guide: "Why criest thou too?

Do not impede his journey fate-ordained;
 It is so willed there where is power to do
 That which is willed; and ask no further question."

And now begin the dolesome notes to grow
 Audible unto me; now am I come
 There where much lamentation strikes upon me.

I came into a place mute of all light,
 Which bellows as the sea does in a tempest,
 If by opposing winds 't is combated.

The infernal hurricane that never rests
 Hurtles the spirits onward in its rapine;
 Whirling them round, and smiting, it molests them.

When they arrive before the precipice,
 There are the shrieks, the plaints, and the laments,
 There they blaspheme the puissance divine.

I understood that unto such a torment
 The carnal malefactors were condemned,
 Who reason subjugate to appetite.

And as the wings of starlings bear them on
 In the cold season in large band and full,
 So doth that blast the spirits maledict;

It hither, thither, downward, upward, drives them;
 No hope doth comfort them for evermore,
 Not of repose, but even of lesser pain.

And as the cranes go chanting forth their lays,
 Making in air a long line of themselves,
 So saw I coming, uttering lamentations,

Shadows borne onward by the aforesaid stress.
 Whereupon said I: "Master, who are those
 People, whom the black air so castigates?"

"The first of those, of whom intelligence
 Thou fain wouldst have," then said he unto me,
 "The empress was of many languages.

To sensual vices she was so abandoned,
 That lustful she made licit in her law,
 To remove the blame to which she had been led.

She is Semiramis, of whom we read
 That she succeeded Ninus, and wa
s his spouse;
 She held the land which now the Sultan rules.

The next is she who killed herself for love,
 And broke faith with the ashes of Sichaeus;
 Then Cleopatra the voluptuous."

Helen I saw, for whom so many ruthless
 Seasons revolved; and saw the great Achilles,
 Who at the last hour combated with Love.

Paris I saw, Tristan; and more than a thousand
 Shades did he name and point out with his finger,
 Whom Love had separated from our life.

After that I had listened to my Teacher,
 Naming the dames of eld and cavaliers,
 Pity prevailed, and I was nigh bewildered.

And I began: "O Poet, willingly
 Speak would I to those two, who go together,
 And seem upon the wind to be so light."

And, he to me: "Thou'lt mark, when they shall be
 Nearer to us; and then do thou implore them
 By love which leadeth them, and they will come."

Soon as the wind in our direction sways them,
 My voice uplift I: "O ye weary souls!
 Come speak to us, if no one interdicts it."

As turtle-doves, called onward by desire,
 With open and steady wings to the sweet nest
 Fly through the air by their volition borne,

So came they from the band where Dido is,
 Approaching us athwart the air malign,
 So strong was the affectionate appeal.

"O living creature gracious and benignant,
 Who visiting goest through the purple air
 Us, who have stained the world incarnadine,

If were the King of the Universe our friend,
 We would pray unto him to give thee peace,
 Since thou hast pity on our woe perverse.

Of what it pleases thee to hear and speak,
 That will we hear, and we will speak to you,
 While silent is the wind, as it is now.

Sitteth the city, wherein I was born,
 Upon the sea-shore where the Po descends
 To rest in peace with all his retinue.

Love, that on gentle heart doth swiftly seize,
 Seized this man for the person beautiful
 That was ta'en from me, and still the mode offends me.

Love, that exempts no one beloved from loving,
 Seized me with pleasure of this man so strongly,
 That, as thou seest, it doth not yet desert me;

Love
 has conducted us unto one death;
 Caina waiteth him who quenched our life!"
 These words were borne along from them to us.

As soon as I had heard those souls tormented,
 I bowed my face, and so long held it down
 Until the Poet said to me: "What thinkest?"

When I made answer, I began: "Alas!
 How many pleasant thoughts, how much desire,
 Conducted these unto the dolorous pass!"

Then unto them I turned me, and I spake,
 And I began: "Thine agonies, Francesca,
 Sad and compassionate to weeping make me.

But tell me, at the time of those sweet sighs,
 By what and in what manner Love conceded,
 That you should know your dubious desires?"

And she to me: "There is no greater sorrow
 Than to be mindful of the happy time
 In misery, and that thy Teacher knows.

But, if to recognise the earliest root
 Of love in us thou hast so great desire,
 I will do even as he who weeps and speaks.

One day we reading were for our delight
 Of Launcelot, how Love did him enthral.
 Alone we were and without any fear.

Full many a time our eyes together drew
 That reading, and drove the colour from our faces;
 But one point only was it that o'ercame us.

When as we read of the much-longed-for smile
 Being by such a noble lover kissed,
 This one, who ne'er from me shall be divided,

Kissed me upon the mouth all palpitating.
 Galeotto was the book and he who wrote it.
 That day no farther did we read therein."

And all the while one spirit uttered this,
 The other one did weep so, that, for pity,
 I swooned away as if I had been dying,

And fell, even as a dead body falls.

Inferno: Canto VI

At the return of consciousness, that closed
 Before the pity of those two relations,
 Which utterly with sadness had confused me,

New torments I behold, and new tormented
 Around me, whichsoever way I move,
 And whichsoever way I turn, and gaze.

In the third circle am I of the rain
 Eternal, maledict, and cold, and heavy;
 Its law and quality are never new.

Huge hail, and water sombre-hued, and snow,
 Athwart the tenebrous air pour down amain;

 Noisome the earth is, that receiveth this.

Cerberus, monster cruel and uncouth,
 With his three gullets like a dog is barking
 Over the people that are there submerged.

Red eyes he has, and unctuous beard and black,
 And belly large, and armed with claws his hands;
 He rends the spirits, flays, and quarters them.

Howl the rain maketh them like unto dogs;
 One side they make a shelter for the other;
 Oft turn themselves the wretched reprobates.

When Cerberus perceived us, the great worm!
 His mouths he opened, and displayed his tusks;
 Not a limb had he that was motionless.

And my Conductor, with his spans extended,
 Took of the earth, and with his fists well filled,
 He threw it into those rapacious gullets.

Such as that dog is, who by barking craves,
 And quiet grows soon as his food he gnaws,
 For to devour it he but thinks and struggles,

The like became those muzzles filth-begrimed
 Of Cerberus the demon, who so thunders
 Over the souls that they would fain be deaf.

We passed across the shadows, which subdues
 The heavy rain-storm, and we placed our feet
 Upon their vanity that person seems.

They all were lying prone upon the earth,
 Excepting one, who sat upright as soon
 As he beheld us passing on before him.

"O thou that art conducted through this Hell,"
 He said to me, "recall me, if thou canst;
 Thyself wast made before I was unmade."

And I to him: "The anguish which thou hast
 Perhaps doth draw thee out of my remembrance,
 So that it seems not I have ever seen thee.

But tell me who thou art, that in so doleful
 A place art put, and in such punishment,
 If some are greater, none is so displeasing."

And he to me: "Thy city, which is full
 Of envy so that now the sack runs over,
 Held me within it in the life serene.

You citizens were wont to call me Ciacco;
 For the pernicious sin of gluttony
 I, as thou seest, am battered by this rain.

And I, sad soul, am not the only one,
 For all these suffer the like penalty
 For the like sin;" and word no more spake he.

I answered him: "Ciacco, thy wr
etchedness
 Weighs on me so that it to weep invites me;
 But tell me, if thou knowest, to what shall come

The citizens of the divided city;
 If any there be just; and the occasion
 Tell me why so much discord has assailed it."

And he to me: "They, after long contention,
 Will come to bloodshed; and the rustic party
 Will drive the other out with much offence.

Then afterwards behoves it this one fall
 Within three suns, and rise again the other
 By force of him who now is on the coast.

High will it hold its forehead a long while,
 Keeping the other under heavy burdens,
 Howe'er it weeps thereat and is indignant.

The just are two, and are not understood there;
 Envy and Arrogance and Avarice
 Are the three sparks that have all hearts enkindled."

Here ended he his tearful utterance;
 And I to him: "I wish thee still to teach me,
 And make a gift to me of further speech.

Farinata and Tegghiaio, once so worthy,
 Jacopo Rusticucci, Arrigo, and Mosca,
 And others who on good deeds set their thoughts,

Say where they are, and cause that I may know them;
 For great desire constraineth me to learn
 If Heaven doth sweeten them, or Hell envenom."

And he: "They are among the blacker souls;
 A different sin downweighs them to the bottom;
 If thou so far descendest, thou canst see them.

But when thou art again in the sweet world,
 I pray thee to the mind of others bring me;
 No more I tell thee and no more I answer."

Then his straightforward eyes he turned askance,
 Eyed me a little, and then bowed his head;
 He fell therewith prone like the other blind.

And the Guide said to me: "He wakes no more
 This side the sound of the angelic trumpet;
 When shall approach the hostile Potentate,

Each one shall find again his dismal tomb,
 Shall reassume his flesh and his own figure,
 Shall hear what through eternity re-echoes."

So we passed onward o'er the filthy mixture
 Of shadows and of rain with footsteps slow,
 Touching a little on the future life.

Wherefore I said: "Master, these torments here,
 Will they increase afte
r the mighty sentence,
 Or lesser be, or will they be as burning?"

And he to me: "Return unto thy science,
 Which wills, that as the thing more perfect is,
 The more it feels of pleasure and of pain.

Albeit that this people maledict
 To true perfection never can attain,
 Hereafter more than now they look to be."

Round in a circle by that road we went,
 Speaking much more, which I do not repeat;
 We came unto the point where the descent is;

There we found Plutus the great enemy.

Inferno: Canto VII

"Pape Satan, Pape Satan, Aleppe!"
 Thus Plutus with his clucking voice began;
 And that benignant Sage, who all things knew,

Said, to encourage me: "Let not thy fear
 Harm thee; for any power that he may have
 Shall not prevent thy going down this crag."

Then he turned round unto that bloated lip,
 And said: "Be silent, thou accursed wolf;
 Consume within thyself with thine own rage.

Not causeless is this journey to the abyss;
 Thus is it willed on high, where Michael wrought
 Vengeance upon the proud adultery."

Even as the sails inflated by the wind
 Involved together fall when snaps the mast,
 So fell the cruel monster to the earth.

Thus we descended into the fourth chasm,
 Gaining still farther on the dolesome shore
 Which all the woe of the universe insacks.

Justice of God, ah! who heaps up so many
 New toils and sufferings as I beheld?
 And why doth our transgression waste us so?

As doth the billow there upon Charybdis,
 That breaks itself on that which it encounters,
 So here the folk must dance their roundelay.

Here saw I people, more than elsewhere, many,
 On one side and the other, with great howls,
 Rolling weights forward by main force of chest.

They clashed together, and then at that point
 Each one turned backward, rolling retrograde,
 Crying, "Why keepest?" and, "Why squanderest thou?"

Thus they returned along the lurid circle
 On either hand unto the opposite point,
 Shouting their shameful metre evermore.

Then each, when he arrived there, wheeled about
 Through his half-circle to another 
joust;
 And I, who had my heart pierced as it were,

Exclaimed: "My Master, now declare to me
 What people these are, and if all were clerks,
 These shaven crowns upon the left of us."

And he to me: "All of them were asquint
 In intellect in the first life, so much
 That there with measure they no spending made.

Clearly enough their voices bark it forth,
 Whene'er they reach the two points of the circle,
 Where sunders them the opposite defect.

Clerks those were who no hairy covering
 Have on the head, and Popes and Cardinals,
 In whom doth Avarice practise its excess."

And I: "My Master, among such as these
 I ought forsooth to recognise some few,
 Who were infected with these maladies."

And he to me: "Vain thought thou entertainest;
 The undiscerning life which made them sordid
 Now makes them unto all discernment dim.

Forever shall they come to these two buttings;
 These from the sepulchre shall rise again
 With the fist closed, and these with tresses shorn.

Ill giving and ill keeping the fair world
 Have ta'en from them, and placed them in this scuffle;
 Whate'er it be, no words adorn I for it.

Now canst thou, Son, behold the transient farce
 Of goods that are committed unto Fortune,
 For which the human race each other buffet;

For all the gold that is beneath the moon,
 Or ever has been, of these weary souls
 Could never make a single one repose."

"Master," I said to him, "now tell me also
 What is this Fortune which thou speakest of,
 That has the world's goods so within its clutches?"

And he to me: "O creatures imbecile,
 What ignorance is this which doth beset you?
 Now will I have thee learn my judgment of her.

He whose omniscience everything transcends
 The heavens created, and gave who should guide them,
 That every part to every part may shine,

Distributing the light in equal measure;
 He in like manner to the mundane splendours
 Ordained a general ministress and guide,

That she might change at times the empty treasures
 From race to race, from one blood to another,
 Beyond resistance of
 all human wisdom.

Therefore one people triumphs, and another
 Languishes, in pursuance of her judgment,
 Which hidden is, as in the grass a serpent.

Your knowledge has no counterstand against her;
 She makes provision, judges, and pursues
 Her governance, as theirs the other gods.

Her permutations have not any truce;
 Necessity makes her precipitate,
 So often cometh who his turn obtains.

And this is she who is so crucified
 Even by those who ought to give her praise,
 Giving her blame amiss, and bad repute.

But she is blissful, and she hears it not;
 Among the other primal creatures gladsome
 She turns her sphere, and blissful she rejoices.

Let us descend now unto greater woe;
 Already sinks each star that was ascending
 When I set out, and loitering is forbidden."

We crossed the circle to the other bank,
 Near to a fount that boils, and pours itself
 Along a gully that runs out of it.

The water was more sombre far than perse;
 And we, in company with the dusky waves,
 Made entrance downward by a path uncouth.

A marsh it makes, which has the name of Styx,
 This tristful brooklet, when it has descended
 Down to the foot of the malign gray shores.

And I, who stood intent upon beholding,
 Saw people mud-besprent in that lagoon,
 All of them naked and with angry look.

They smote each other not alone with hands,
 But with the head and with the breast and feet,
 Tearing each other piecemeal with their teeth.

Said the good Master: "Son, thou now beholdest
 The souls of those whom anger overcame;
 And likewise I would have thee know for certain

Beneath the water people are who sigh
 And make this water bubble at the surface,
 As the eye tells thee wheresoe'er it turns.

Fixed in the mire they say, 'We sullen were
 In the sweet air, which by the sun is gladdened,
 Bearing within ourselves the sluggish reek;

Now we are sullen in this sable mire.'
 This hymn do they keep gurgling in their throats,
 For with unbroken words they cannot say it."

Thus we went circling round the filthy fen
 A great arc 'twixt th
e dry bank and the swamp,
 With eyes turned unto those who gorge the mire;

Unto the foot of a tower we came at last.

Inferno: Canto VIII

I say, continuing, that long before
 We to the foot of that high tower had come,
 Our eyes went upward to the summit of it,

By reason of two flamelets we saw placed there,
 And from afar another answer them,
 So far, that hardly could the eye attain it.

And, to the sea of all discernment turned,
 I said: "What sayeth this, and what respondeth
 That other fire? and who are they that made it?"

And he to me: "Across the turbid waves
 What is expected thou canst now discern,
 If reek of the morass conceal it not."

Cord never shot an arrow from itself
 That sped away athwart the air so swift,
 As I beheld a very little boat

Come o'er the water tow'rds us at that moment,
 Under the guidance of a single pilot,
 Who shouted, "Now art thou arrived, fell soul?"

"Phlegyas, Phlegyas, thou criest out in vain
 For this once," said my Lord; "thou shalt not have us
 Longer than in the passing of the slough."

As he who listens to some great deceit
 That has been done to him, and then resents it,
 Such became Phlegyas, in his gathered wrath.

My Guide descended down into the boat,
 And then he made me enter after him,
 And only when I entered seemed it laden.

Soon as the Guide and I were in the boat,
 The antique prow goes on its way, dividing
 More of the water than 'tis wont with others.

While we were running through the dead canal,
 Uprose in front of me one full of mire,
 And said, "Who 'rt thou that comest ere the hour?"

And I to him: "Although I come, I stay not;
 But who art thou that hast become so squalid?"
 "Thou seest that I am one who weeps," he answered.

And I to him: "With weeping and with wailing,
 Thou spirit maledict, do thou remain;
 For thee I know, though thou art all defiled."

Then stretched he both his hands unto the boat;
 Whereat my wary Master thrust him back,
 Saying, "Away there with the other dogs!"

Thereafter with his arms he clasped my neck;
 He kisse
d my face, and said: "Disdainful soul,
 Blessed be she who bore thee in her bosom.

That was an arrogant person in the world;
 Goodness is none, that decks his memory;
 So likewise here his shade is furious.

How many are esteemed great kings up there,
 Who here shall be like unto swine in mire,
 Leaving behind them horrible dispraises!"

And I: "My Master, much should I be pleased,
 If I could see him soused into this broth,
 Before we issue forth out of the lake."

And he to me: "Ere unto thee the shore
 Reveal itself, thou shalt be satisfied;
 Such a desire 'tis meet thou shouldst enjoy."

A little after that, I saw such havoc
 Made of him by the people of the mire,
 That still I praise and thank my God for it.

They all were shouting, "At Philippo Argenti!"
 And that exasperate spirit Florentine
 Turned round upon himself with his own teeth.

We left him there, and more of him I tell not;
 But on mine ears there smote a lamentation,
 Whence forward I intent unbar mine eyes.

And the good Master said: "Even now, my Son,
 The city draweth near whose name is Dis,
 With the grave citizens, with the great throng."

And I: "Its mosques already, Master, clearly
 Within there in the valley I discern
 Vermilion, as if issuing from the fire

They were." And he to me: "The fire eternal
 That kindles them within makes them look red,
 As thou beholdest in this nether Hell."

Then we arrived within the moats profound,
 That circumvallate that disconsolate city;
 The walls appeared to me to be of iron.

Not without making first a circuit wide,
 We came unto a place where loud the pilot
 Cried out to us, "Debark, here is the entrance."

More than a thousand at the gates I saw
 Out of the Heavens rained down, who angrily
 Were saying, "Who is this that without death

Goes through the kingdom of the people dead?"
 And my sagacious Master made a sign
 Of wishing secretly to speak with them.

A little then they quelled their great disdain,
 And said: "Come thou alone, and he begone
 Who has so boldly entered these dominions.

Le
t him return alone by his mad road;
 Try, if he can; for thou shalt here remain,
 Who hast escorted him through such dark regions."

Think, Reader, if I was discomforted
 At utterance of the accursed words;
 For never to return here I believed.

"O my dear Guide, who more than seven times
 Hast rendered me security, and drawn me
 From imminent peril that before me stood,

Do not desert me," said I, "thus undone;
 And if the going farther be denied us,
 Let us retrace our steps together swiftly."

And that Lord, who had led me thitherward,
 Said unto me: "Fear not; because our passage
 None can take from us, it by Such is given.

But here await me, and thy weary spirit
 Comfort and nourish with a better hope;
 For in this nether world I will not leave thee."

So onward goes and there abandons me
 My Father sweet, and I remain in doubt,
 For No and Yes within my head contend.

I could not hear what he proposed to them;
 But with them there he did not linger long,
 Ere each within in rivalry ran back.

They closed the portals, those our adversaries,
 On my Lord's breast, who had remained without
 And turned to me with footsteps far between.

His eyes cast down, his forehead shorn had he
 Of all its boldness, and he said, with sighs,
 "Who has denied to me the dolesome houses?"

And unto me: "Thou, because I am angry,
 Fear not, for I will conquer in the trial,
 Whatever for defence within be planned.

This arrogance of theirs is nothing new;
 For once they used it at less secret gate,
 Which finds itself without a fastening still.

O'er it didst thou behold the dead inscription;
 And now this side of it descends the steep,
 Passing across the circles without escort,

One by whose means the city shall be opened."

Inferno: Canto IX

That hue which cowardice brought out on me,
 Beholding my Conductor backward turn,
 Sooner repressed within him his new colour.

He stopped attentive, like a man who listens,
 Because the eye could not conduct him far
 Through the black air, and through the heavy fog.

"Still it behoveth 
us to win the fight,"
 Began he; "Else. . .Such offered us herself. . .
 O how I long that some one here arrive!"

Well I perceived, as soon as the beginning
 He covered up with what came afterward,
 That they were words quite different from the first;

But none the less his saying gave me fear,
 Because I carried out the broken phrase,
 Perhaps to a worse meaning than he had.

"Into this bottom of the doleful conch
 Doth any e'er descend from the first grade,
 Which for its pain has only hope cut off?"

This question put I; and he answered me:
 "Seldom it comes to pass that one of us
 Maketh the journey upon which I go.

True is it, once before I here below
 Was conjured by that pitiless Erictho,
 Who summoned back the shades unto their bodies.

Naked of me short while the flesh had been,
 Before within that wall she made me enter,
 To bring a spirit from the circle of Judas;

That is the lowest region and the darkest,
 And farthest from the heaven which circles all.
 Well know I the way; therefore be reassured.

This fen, which a prodigious stench exhales,
 Encompasses about the city dolent,
 Where now we cannot enter without anger."

And more he said, but not in mind I have it;
 Because mine eye had altogether drawn me
 Tow'rds the high tower with the red-flaming summit,

Where in a moment saw I swift uprisen
 The three infernal Furies stained with blood,
 Who had the limbs of women and their mien,

And with the greenest hydras were begirt;
 Small serpents and cerastes were their tresses,
 Wherewith their horrid temples were entwined.

And he who well the handmaids of the Queen
 Of everlasting lamentation knew,
 Said unto me: "Behold the fierce Erinnys.

This is Megaera, on the left-hand side;
 She who is weeping on the right, Alecto;
 Tisiphone is between;" and then was silent.

Each one her breast was rending with her nails;
 They beat them with their palms, and cried so loud,
 That I for dread pressed close unto the Poet.

"Medusa come, so we to stone will change him!"
 All shouted looking down; "in evil ho
ur
 Avenged we not on Theseus his assault!"

"Turn thyself round, and keep thine eyes close shut,
 For if the Gorgon appear, and thou shouldst see it,
 No more returning upward would there be."

Thus said the Master; and he turned me round
 Himself, and trusted not unto my hands
 So far as not to blind me with his own.

O ye who have undistempered intellects,
 Observe the doctrine that conceals itself
 Beneath the veil of the mysterious verses!

And now there came across the turbid waves
 The clangour of a sound with terror fraught,
 Because of which both of the margins trembled;

Not otherwise it was than of a wind
 Impetuous on account of adverse heats,
 That smites the forest, and, without restraint,

The branches rends, beats down, and bears away;
 Right onward, laden with dust, it goes superb,
 And puts to flight the wild beasts and the shepherds.

Mine eyes he loosed, and said: "Direct the nerve
 Of vision now along that ancient foam,
 There yonder where that smoke is most intense."

Even as the frogs before the hostile serpent
 Across the water scatter all abroad,
 Until each one is huddled in the earth.

More than a thousand ruined souls I saw,
 Thus fleeing from before one who on foot
 Was passing o'er the Styx with soles unwet.

From off his face he fanned that unctuous air,
 Waving his left hand oft in front of him,
 And only with that anguish seemed he weary.

Well I perceived one sent from Heaven was he,
 And to the Master turned; and he made sign
 That I should quiet stand, and bow before him.

Ah! how disdainful he appeared to me!
 He reached the gate, and with a little rod
 He opened it, for there was no resistance.

"O banished out of Heaven, people despised!"
 Thus he began upon the horrid threshold;
 "Whence is this arrogance within you couched?

Wherefore recalcitrate against that will,
 From which the end can never be cut off,
 And which has many times increased your pain?

What helpeth it to butt against the fates?
 Your Cerberus, if you remember well,
 For that still bears his chin and gull
et peeled."

Then he returned along the miry road,
 And spake no word to us, but had the look
 Of one whom other care constrains and goads

Than that of him who in his presence is;
 And we our feet directed tow'rds the city,
 After those holy words all confident.

Within we entered without any contest;
 And I, who inclination had to see
 What the condition such a fortress holds,

Soon as I was within, cast round mine eye,
 And see on every hand an ample plain,
 Full of distress and torment terrible.

Even as at Arles, where stagnant grows the Rhone,
 Even as at Pola near to the Quarnaro,
 That shuts in Italy and bathes its borders,

The sepulchres make all the place uneven;
 So likewise did they there on every side,
 Saving that there the manner was more bitter;

For flames between the sepulchres were scattered,
 By which they so intensely heated were,
 That iron more so asks not any art.

All of their coverings uplifted were,
 And from them issued forth such dire laments,
 Sooth seemed they of the wretched and tormented.

And I: "My Master, what are all those people
 Who, having sepulture within those tombs,
 Make themselves audible by doleful sighs?"

And he to me: "Here are the Heresiarchs,
 With their disciples of all sects, and much
 More than thou thinkest laden are the tombs.

Here like together with its like is buried;
 And more and less the monuments are heated."
 And when he to the right had turned, we passed

Between the torments and high parapets.

Inferno: Canto X

Now onward goes, along a narrow path
 Between the torments and the city wall,
 My Master, and I follow at his back.

"O power supreme, that through these impious circles
 Turnest me," I began, "as pleases thee,
 Speak to me, and my longings satisfy;

The people who are lying in these tombs,
 Might they be seen? already are uplifted
 The covers all, and no one keepeth guard."

And he to me: "They all will be closed up
 When from Jehoshaphat they shall return
 Here with the bodies they have left above.

Their cemetery have upon this side
 Wi
th Epicurus all his followers,
 Who with the body mortal make the soul;

But in the question thou dost put to me,
 Within here shalt thou soon be satisfied,
 And likewise in the wish thou keepest silent."

And I: "Good Leader, I but keep concealed
 From thee my heart, that I may speak the less,
 Nor only now hast thou thereto disposed me."

"O Tuscan, thou who through the city of fire
 Goest alive, thus speaking modestly,
 Be pleased to stay thy footsteps in this place.

Thy mode of speaking makes thee manifest
 A native of that noble fatherland,
 To which perhaps I too molestful was."

Upon a sudden issued forth this sound
 From out one of the tombs; wherefore I pressed,
 Fearing, a little nearer to my Leader.

And unto me he said: "Turn thee; what dost thou?
 Behold there Farinata who has risen;
 From the waist upwards wholly shalt thou see him."

I had already fixed mine eyes on his,
 And he uprose erect with breast and front
 E'en as if Hell he had in great despite.

And with courageous hands and prompt my Leader
 Thrust me between the sepulchres towards him,
 Exclaiming, "Let thy words explicit be."

As soon as I was at the foot of his tomb
 Somewhat he eyed me, and, as if disdainful,
 Then asked of me, "Who were thine ancestors?"

I, who desirous of obeying was,
 Concealed it not, but all revealed to him;
 Whereat he raised his brows a little upward.

Then said he: "Fiercely adverse have they been
 To me, and to my fathers, and my party;
 So that two several times I scattered them."

"If they were banished, they returned on all sides,"
 I answered him, "the first time and the second;
 But yours have not acquired that art aright."

Then there uprose upon the sight, uncovered
 Down to the chin, a shadow at his side;
 I think that he had risen on his knees.

Round me he gazed, as if solicitude
 He had to see if some one else were with me,
 But after his suspicion was all spent,

Weeping, he said to me: "If through this blind
 Prison thou goest by loftiness of genius,
 Where is my son? and why is he not with th
ee?"

And I to him: "I come not of myself;
 He who is waiting yonder leads me here,
 Whom in disdain perhaps your Guido had."

His language and the mode of punishment
 Already unto me had read his name;
 On that account my answer was so full.

Up starting suddenly, he cried out: "How
 Saidst thou,--he had? Is he not still alive?
 Does not the sweet light strike upon his eyes?"

When he became aware of some delay,
 Which I before my answer made, supine
 He fell again, and forth appeared no more.

But the other, magnanimous, at whose desire
 I had remained, did not his aspect change,
 Neither his neck he moved, nor bent his side.

"And if," continuing his first discourse,
 "They have that art," he said, "not learned aright,
 That more tormenteth me, than doth this bed.

But fifty times shall not rekindled be
 The countenance of the Lady who reigns here,
 Ere thou shalt know how heavy is that art;

And as thou wouldst to the sweet world return,
 Say why that people is so pitiless
 Against my race in each one of its laws?"

Whence I to him: "The slaughter and great carnage
 Which have with crimson stained the Arbia, cause
 Such orisons in our temple to be made."

After his head he with a sigh had shaken,
 "There I was not alone," he said, "nor surely
 Without a cause had with the others moved.

But there I was alone, where every one
 Consented to the laying waste of Florence,
 He who defended her with open face."

"Ah! so hereafter may your seed repose,"
 I him entreated, "solve for me that knot,
 Which has entangled my conceptions here.

It seems that you can see, if I hear rightly,
 Beforehand whatsoe'er time brings with it,
 And in the present have another mode."

"We see, like those who have imperfect sight,
 The things," he said, "that distant are from us;
 So much still shines on us the Sovereign Ruler.

When they draw near, or are, is wholly vain
 Our intellect, and if none brings it to us,
 Not anything know we of your human state.

Hence thou canst understand, that wholly dead
 Will be our knowledge from the
 moment when
 The portal of the future shall be closed."

Then I, as if compunctious for my fault,
 Said: "Now, then, you will tell that fallen one,
 That still his son is with the living joined.

And if just now, in answering, I was dumb,
 Tell him I did it because I was thinking
 Already of the error you have solved me."

And now my Master was recalling me,
 Wherefore more eagerly I prayed the spirit
 That he would tell me who was with him there.

He said: "With more than a thousand here I lie;
 Within here is the second Frederick,
 And the Cardinal, and of the rest I speak not."

Thereon he hid himself; and I towards
 The ancient poet turned my steps, reflecting
 Upon that saying, which seemed hostile to me.

He moved along; and afterward thus going,
 He said to me, "Why art thou so bewildered?"
 And I in his inquiry satisfied him.

"Let memory preserve what thou hast heard
 Against thyself," that Sage commanded me,
 "And now attend here;" and he raised his finger.

"When thou shalt be before the radiance sweet
 Of her whose beauteous eyes all things behold,
 From her thou'lt know the journey of thy life."

Unto the left hand then he turned his feet;
 We left the wall, and went towards the middle,
 Along a path that strikes into a valley,

Which even up there unpleasant made its stench.

Inferno: Canto XI

Upon the margin of a lofty bank
 Which great rocks broken in a circle made,
 We came upon a still more cruel throng;

And there, by reason of the horrible
 Excess of stench the deep abyss throws out,
 We drew ourselves aside behind the cover

Of a great tomb, whereon I saw a writing,
 Which said: "Pope Anastasius I hold,
 Whom out of the right way Photinus drew."

"Slow it behoveth our descent to be,
 So that the sense be first a little used
 To the sad blast, and then we shall not heed it."

The Master thus; and unto him I said,
 "Some compensation find, that the time pass not
 Idly;" and he: "Thou seest I think of that.

My son, upon the inside of these rocks,"
 Began he then to say, "are three small circl
es,
 From grade to grade, like those which thou art leaving.

They all are full of spirits maledict;
 But that hereafter sight alone suffice thee,
 Hear how and wherefore they are in constraint.

Of every malice that wins hate in Heaven,
 Injury is the end; and all such end
 Either by force or fraud afflicteth others.

But because fraud is man's peculiar vice,
 More it displeases God; and so stand lowest
 The fraudulent, and greater dole assails them.

All the first circle of the Violent is;
 But since force may be used against three persons,
 In three rounds 'tis divided and constructed.

To God, to ourselves, and to our neighbour can we
 Use force; I say on them and on their things,
 As thou shalt hear with reason manifest.

A death by violence, and painful wounds,
 Are to our neighbour given; and in his substance
 Ruin, and arson, and injurious levies;

Whence homicides, and he who smites unjustly,
 Marauders, and freebooters, the first round
 Tormenteth all in companies diverse.

Man may lay violent hands upon himself
 And his own goods; and therefore in the second
 Round must perforce without avail repent

Whoever of your world deprives himself,
 Who games, and dissipates his property,
 And weepeth there, where he should jocund be.

Violence can be done the Deity,
 In heart denying and blaspheming Him,
 And by disdaining Nature and her bounty.

And for this reason doth the smallest round
 Seal with its signet Sodom and Cahors,
 And who, disdaining God, speaks from the heart.

Fraud, wherewithal is every conscience stung,
 A man may practise upon him who trusts,
 And him who doth no confidence imburse.

This latter mode, it would appear, dissevers
 Only the bond of love which Nature makes;
 Wherefore within the second circle nestle

Hypocrisy, flattery, and who deals in magic,
 Falsification, theft, and simony,
 Panders, and barrators, and the like filth.

By the other mode, forgotten is that love
 Which Nature makes, and what is after added,
 From which there is a special faith engendered.

Hence in the smal
lest circle, where the point is
 Of the Universe, upon which Dis is seated,
 Whoe'er betrays for ever is consumed."

And I: "My Master, clear enough proceeds
 Thy reasoning, and full well distinguishes
 This cavern and the people who possess it.

But tell me, those within the fat lagoon,
 Whom the wind drives, and whom the rain doth beat,
 And who encounter with such bitter tongues,

Wherefore are they inside of the red city
 Not punished, if God has them in his wrath,
 And if he has not, wherefore in such fashion?"

And unto me he said: "Why wanders so
 Thine intellect from that which it is wont?
 Or, sooth, thy mind where is it elsewhere looking?

Hast thou no recollection of those words
 With which thine Ethics thoroughly discusses
 The dispositions three, that Heaven abides not,--

Incontinence, and Malice, and insane
 Bestiality? and how Incontinence
 Less God offendeth, and less blame attracts?

If thou regardest this conclusion well,
 And to thy mind recallest who they are
 That up outside are undergoing penance,

Clearly wilt thou perceive why from these felons
 They separated are, and why less wroth
 Justice divine doth smite them with its hammer."

"O Sun, that healest all distempered vision,
 Thou dost content me so, when thou resolvest,
 That doubting pleases me no less than knowing!

Once more a little backward turn thee," said I,
 "There where thou sayest that usury offends
 Goodness divine, and disengage the knot."

"Philosophy," he said, "to him who heeds it,
 Noteth, not only in one place alone,
 After what manner Nature takes her course

From Intellect Divine, and from its art;
 And if thy Physics carefully thou notest,
 After not many pages shalt thou find,

That this your art as far as possible
 Follows, as the disciple doth the master;
 So that your art is, as it were, God's grandchild.

From these two, if thou bringest to thy mind
 Genesis at the beginning, it behoves
 Mankind to gain their life and to advance;

And since the usurer takes another way,
 Nature herself and in her follower
 Dis
dains he, for elsewhere he puts his hope.

But follow, now, as I would fain go on,
 For quivering are the Fishes on the horizon,
 And the Wain wholly over Caurus lies,

And far beyond there we descend the crag."

Inferno: Canto XII

The place where to descend the bank we came
 Was alpine, and from what was there, moreover,
 Of such a kind that every eye would shun it.

Such as that ruin is which in the flank
 Smote, on this side of Trent, the Adige,
 Either by earthquake or by failing stay,

For from the mountain's top, from which it moved,
 Unto the plain the cliff is shattered so,
 Some path 'twould give to him who was above;

Even such was the descent of that ravine,
 And on the border of the broken chasm
 The infamy of Crete was stretched along,

Who was conceived in the fictitious cow;
 And when he us beheld, he bit himself,
 Even as one whom anger racks within.

My Sage towards him shouted: "Peradventure
 Thou think'st that here may be the Duke of Athens,
 Who in the world above brought death to thee?

Get thee gone, beast, for this one cometh not
 Instructed by thy sister, but he comes
 In order to behold your punishments."

As is that bull who breaks loose at the moment
 In which he has received the mortal blow,
 Who cannot walk, but staggers here and there,

The Minotaur beheld I do the like;
 And he, the wary, cried: "Run to the passage;
 While he wroth, 'tis well thou shouldst descend."

Thus down we took our way o'er that discharge
 Of stones, which oftentimes did move themselves
 Beneath my feet, from the unwonted burden.

Thoughtful I went; and he said: "Thou art thinking
 Perhaps upon this ruin, which is guarded
 By that brute anger which just now I quenched.

Now will I have thee know, the other time
 I here descended to the nether Hell,
 This precipice had not yet fallen down.

But truly, if I well discern, a little
 Before His coming who the mighty spoil
 Bore off from Dis, in the supernal circle,

Upon all sides the deep and loathsome valley
 Trembled so, that I thought the Universe
 Was thrill
ed with love, by which there are who think

The world ofttimes converted into chaos;
 And at that moment this primeval crag
 Both here and elsewhere made such overthrow.

But fix thine eyes below; for draweth near
 The river of blood, within which boiling is
 Whoe'er by violence doth injure others."

O blind cupidity, O wrath insane,
 That spurs us onward so in our short life,
 And in the eternal then so badly steeps us!

I saw an ample moat bent like a bow,
 As one which all the plain encompasses,
 Conformable to what my Guide had said.

And between this and the embankment's foot
 Centaurs in file were running, armed with arrows,
 As in the world they used the chase to follow.

Beholding us descend, each one stood still,
 And from the squadron three detached themselves,
 With bows and arrows in advance selected;

And from afar one cried: "Unto what torment
 Come ye, who down the hillside are descending?
 Tell us from there; if not, I draw the bow."

My Master said: "Our answer will we make
 To Chiron, near you there; in evil hour,
 That will of thine was evermore so hasty."

Then touched he me, and said: "This one is Nessus,
 Who perished for the lovely Dejanira,
 And for himself, himself did vengeance take.

And he in the midst, who at his breast is gazing,
 Is the great Chiron, who brought up Achilles;
 That other Pholus is, who was so wrathful.

Thousands and thousands go about the moat
 Shooting with shafts whatever soul emerges
 Out of the blood, more than his crime allots."

Near we approached unto those monsters fleet;
 Chiron an arrow took, and with the notch
 Backward upon his jaws he put his beard.

After he had uncovered his great mouth,
 He said to his companions: "Are you ware
 That he behind moveth whate'er he touches?

Thus are not wont to do the feet of dead men."
 And my good Guide, who now was at his breast,
 Where the two natures are together joined,

Replied: "Indeed he lives, and thus alone
 Me it behoves to show him the dark valley;
 Necessity, and not delight, impels us.

Some one withdrew
 from singing Halleluja,
 Who unto me committed this new office;
 No thief is he, nor I a thievish spirit.

But by that virtue through which I am moving
 My steps along this savage thoroughfare,
 Give us some one of thine, to be with us,

And who may show us where to pass the ford,
 And who may carry this one on his back;
 For 'tis no spirit that can walk the air."

Upon his right breast Chiron wheeled about,
 And said to Nessus: "Turn and do thou guide them,
 And warn aside, if other band may meet you."

We with our faithful escort onward moved
 Along the brink of the vermilion boiling,
 Wherein the boiled were uttering loud laments.

People I saw within up to the eyebrows,
 And the great Centaur said: "Tyrants are these,
 Who dealt in bloodshed and in pillaging.

Here they lament their pitiless mischiefs; here
 Is Alexander, and fierce Dionysius
 Who upon Sicily brought dolorous years.

That forehead there which has the hair so black
 Is Azzolin; and the other who is blond,
 Obizzo is of Esti, who, in truth,

Up in the world was by his stepson slain."
 Then turned I to the Poet; and he said,
 "Now he be first to thee, and second I."

A little farther on the Centaur stopped
 Above a folk, who far down as the throat
 Seemed from that boiling stream to issue forth.

A shade he showed us on one side alone,
 Saying: "He cleft asunder in God's bosom
 The heart that still upon the Thames is honoured."

Then people saw I, who from out the river
 Lifted their heads and also all the chest;
 And many among these I recognised.

Thus ever more and more grew shallower
 That blood, so that the feet alone it covered;
 And there across the moat our passage was.

"Even as thou here upon this side beholdest
 The boiling stream, that aye diminishes,"
 The Centaur said, "I wish thee to believe

That on this other more and more declines
 Its bed, until it reunites itself
 Where it behoveth tyranny to groan.

Justice divine, upon this side, is goading
 That Attila, who was a scourge on earth,
 And Pyrrhus, and Sextus; and for ever mi
lks

The tears which with the boiling it unseals
 In Rinier da Corneto and Rinier Pazzo,
 Who made upon the highways so much war."

Then back he turned, and passed again the ford.

Inferno: Canto XIII

Not yet had Nessus reached the other side,
 When we had put ourselves within a wood,
 That was not marked by any path whatever.

Not foliage green, but of a dusky colour,
 Not branches smooth, but gnarled and intertangled,
 Not apple-trees were there, but thorns with poison.

Such tangled thickets have not, nor so dense,
 Those savage wild beasts, that in hatred hold
 'Twixt Cecina and Corneto the tilled places.

There do the hideous Harpies make their nests,
 Who chased the Trojans from the Strophades,
 With sad announcement of impending doom;

Broad wings have they, and necks and faces human,
 And feet with claws, and their great bellies fledged;
 They make laments upon the wondrous trees.

And the good Master: "Ere thou enter farther,
 Know that thou art within the second round,"
 Thus he began to say, "and shalt be, till

Thou comest out upon the horrible sand;
 Therefore look well around, and thou shalt see
 Things that will credence give unto my speech."

I heard on all sides lamentations uttered,
 And person none beheld I who might make them,
 Whence, utterly bewildered, I stood still.

I think he thought that I perhaps might think
 So many voices issued through those trunks
 From people who concealed themselves from us;

Therefore the Master said: "If thou break off
 Some little spray from any of these trees,
 The thoughts thou hast will wholly be made vain."

Then stretched I forth my hand a little forward,
 And plucked a branchlet off from a great thorn;
 And the trunk cried, "Why dost thou mangle me?"

After it had become embrowned with blood,
 It recommenced its cry: "Why dost thou rend me?
 Hast thou no spirit of pity whatsoever?

Men once we were, and now are changed to trees;
 Indeed, thy hand should be more pitiful,
 Even if the souls of serpents we had been."

As out of a green brand, that is on fi
re
 At one of the ends, and from the other drips
 And hisses with the wind that is escaping;

So from that splinter issued forth together
 Both words and blood; whereat I let the tip
 Fall, and stood like a man who is afraid.

"Had he been able sooner to believe,"
 My Sage made answer, "O thou wounded soul,
 What only in my verses he has seen,

Not upon thee had he stretched forth his hand;
 Whereas the thing incredible has caused me
 To put him to an act which grieveth me.

But tell him who thou wast, so that by way
 Of some amends thy fame he may refresh
 Up in the world, to which he can return."

And the trunk said: "So thy sweet words allure me,
 I cannot silent be; and you be vexed not,
 That I a little to discourse am tempted.

I am the one who both keys had in keeping
 Of Frederick's heart, and turned them to and fro
 So softly in unlocking and in locking,

That from his secrets most men I withheld;
 Fidelity I bore the glorious office
 So great, I lost thereby my sleep and pulses.

The courtesan who never from the dwelling
 Of Caesar turned aside her strumpet eyes,
 Death universal and the vice of courts,

Inflamed against me all the other minds,
 And they, inflamed, did so inflame Augustus,
 That my glad honours turned to dismal mournings.

My spirit, in disdainful exultation,
 Thinking by dying to escape disdain,
 Made me unjust against myself, the just.

I, by the roots unwonted of this wood,
 Do swear to you that never broke I faith
 Unto my lord, who was so worthy of honour;

And to the world if one of you return,
 Let him my memory comfort, which is lying
 Still prostrate from the blow that envy dealt it."

Waited awhile, and then: "Since he is silent,"
 The Poet said to me, "lose not the time,
 But speak, and question him, if more may please thee."

Whence I to him: "Do thou again inquire
 Concerning what thou thinks't will satisfy me;
 For I cannot, such pity is in my heart."

Therefore he recommenced: "So may the man
 Do for thee freely what thy speech implores,
 Spirit incarcerate, again be plea
sed

To tell us in what way the soul is bound
 Within these knots; and tell us, if thou canst,
 If any from such members e'er is freed."

Then blew the trunk amain, and afterward
 The wind was into such a voice converted:
 "With brevity shall be replied to you.

When the exasperated soul abandons
 The body whence it rent itself away,
 Minos consigns it to the seventh abyss.

It falls into the forest, and no part
 Is chosen for it; but where Fortune hurls it,
 There like a grain of spelt it germinates.

It springs a sapling, and a forest tree;
 The Harpies, feeding then upon its leaves,
 Do pain create, and for the pain an outlet.

Like others for our spoils shall we return;
 But not that any one may them revest,
 For 'tis not just to have what one casts off.

Here we shall drag them, and along the dismal
 Forest our bodies shall suspended be,
 Each to the thorn of his molested shade."

We were attentive still unto the trunk,
 Thinking that more it yet might wish to tell us,
 When by a tumult we were overtaken,

In the same way as he is who perceives
 The boar and chase approaching to his stand,
 Who hears the crashing of the beasts and branches;

And two behold! upon our left-hand side,
 Naked and scratched, fleeing so furiously,
 That of the forest, every fan they broke.

He who was in advance: "Now help, Death, help!"
 And the other one, who seemed to lag too much,
 Was shouting: "Lano, were not so alert

Those legs of thine at joustings of the Toppo!"
 And then, perchance because his breath was failing,
 He grouped himself together with a bush.

Behind them was the forest full of black
 She-mastiffs, ravenous, and swift of foot
 As greyhounds, who are issuing from the chain.

On him who had crouched down they set their teeth,
 And him they lacerated piece by piece,
 Thereafter bore away those aching members.

Thereat my Escort took me by the hand,
 And led me to the bush, that all in vain
 Was weeping from its bloody lacerations.

"O Jacopo," it said, "of Sant' Andrea,
 What helped it thee of me to make a scre
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Ted Garvin, Josephine Paolucci and PG Distributed Proofreaders

Other Books by the Same Author:

 "Journeys to Bagdad"
 _Sixth printing_.

 "Chimney-Pot Papers"
 _Third printing_.

 "Hints to Pilgrims"

THERE'S PIPPINS

AND

CHEESE TO COME

BY

CHARLES S. BROOKS

1917

Illustrated by Theodore Diedricksen, Jr.

TO MY FATHER AND MOTHER

CONTENTS

I. There's Pippins and Cheese to Come

II. On Buying Old Books

III. Any Stick Will Do to Beat a Dog

IV. Roads of Morning

V. The Man of Grub Street Comes from His Garret

VI. Now that Spring is Here

VII. The Friendly Genii

VIII. Mr. Pepys Sits in the Pit

IX. To an Unknown Reader

X. A Plague of All Cowards

XI. The Asperities of the Early British Reviewers

XII. The Pursuit of Fire

THERE'S PIPPINS AND CHEESE TO COME

There's Pippins and Cheese To Come

In my noonday quest for food, if the day is fine, it is my habit to shun
the nearer places of refreshment. I take the air and stretch myself. Like
Eve's serpent I go upright for a bit. Yet if time presses, there may be had
next door a not unsavory stowage. A drinking bar is nearest to the street
where its polished brasses catch the eye. It holds a gilded mirror to such
red-faced nature as consorts within. Yet you pass the bar and come upon a
range of tables at the rear.

Now, if you yield to the habits of the place you order a rump of meat.
Gravy lies about it like a moat around a castle, and if there is in you the
zest for encounter, you attack it above these murky waters. "This castle
hath a pleasant seat," you cry, and charge upon it with pike advanced. But
if your appetite is one to peck and mince, the whiffs that breathe upon the
place come unwelcome to your nostrils. In no wise are they like the sweet
South upon your senses. There is even a suspicion in you--such is your
distemper--that it is too much a witch's cauldron in the kitchen, "eye of
newt, and toe of frog," and you spy and poke upon your food. Bus boys bear
off the crockery as though they were apprenticed to a juggler and were only
at the be
ginning of their art. Waiters bawl strange messages to the cook.
It's a tongue unguessed by learning, yet sharp and potent. Also, there
comes a riot from the kitchen, and steam issues from the door as though the
devil himself were a partner and conducted here an upper branch. Like the
man in the old comedy, your belly may still ring dinner, but the tinkle is
faint. Such being your state, you choose a daintier place to eat.

Having now set upon a longer journey--the day being fine and the sidewalks
thronged--you pass by a restaurant that is but a few doors up the street.
A fellow in a white coat flops pancakes in the window. But even though the
pancake does a double somersault and there are twenty curious noses pressed
against the glass, still you keep your course uptown.

Nor are you led off because a near-by stairway beckons you to a Chinese
restaurant up above. A golden dragon swings over the door. Its race has
fallen since its fire-breathing grandsire guarded the fruits of the
Hesperides. Are not "soys" and "chou meins" and other such treasures of the
East laid out above? And yet the dragon dozes at its post like a sleepy
dog. No flame leaps up its gullet. The swish of its tail is stilled. If it
wag at all, it's but in friendship or because a gust of wind has stirred it
from its dreams.

I have wondered why Chinese restaurants are generally on the second story.
A casual inquiry attests it. I know of one, it is true, on the ground
level, yet here I suspect a special economy. The place had formerly been a
German restaurant, with Teuton scrolls, "Ich Dien," and heraldries on its
walls. A frugal brush changed the decoration. From the heart of a Prussian
blazonry, there flares on you in Chinese yellow a recommendation to try
"Our Chicken Chop Soy." The quartering of the House of Hohenzollern wears a
baldric in praise of "Subgum Noodle Warmein," which it seems they cook to
an unusual delicacy. Even a wall painting of Rip Van Winkle bowling at
tenpins in the mountains is now set off with a pigtail. But the chairs wer
e
Dutch and remain as such. Generally, however, Chinese restaurants are on
the second story. Probably there is a ritual from the ancient days of Ming
Ti that Chinamen when they eat shall sit as near as possible to the sacred
moon.

But hold a bit! In your haste up town to find a place to eat, you are
missing some of the finer sights upon the way. In these windows that
you pass, the merchants have set their choicest wares. If there is any
commodity of softer gloss than common, or one shinier to the eye--so
that your poverty frets you--it is displayed here. In the window of the
haberdasher, shirts--mere torsos with not a leg below or head above--yet
disport themselves in gay neckwear. Despite their dismemberment they are
tricked to the latest turn of fashion. Can vanity survive such general
amputation? Then there is hope for immortality.

But by what sad chance have these blithe fellows been disjointed? If
a gloomy mood prevails in you--as might come from a bad turn of the
market--you fancy that the evil daughter of Herodias still lives around the
corner, and that she has set out her victims to the general view. If there
comes a hurdy-gurdy on the street and you cock your ear to the tune of
it, you may still hear the dancing measure of her wicked feet. Or it is
possible that these are the kindred of Holofernes and that they have supped
guiltily in their tents with a sisterhood of Judiths.

Or we may conceive--our thoughts running now to food--that these gamesome
creatures of the haberdasher had dressed themselves for a more recent
banquet. Their black-tailed coats and glossy shirts attest a rare occasion.
It was in holiday mood, when they were fresh-combed and perked in their
best, that they were cut off from life. It would appear that Jack Ketch the
headsman got them when they were rubbed and shining for the feast. We'll
not squint upon his writ. It is enough that they were apprehended for some
rascality. When he came thumping on his dreadful summons, here they were
already set, fopped from shoes to head in the ne
west whim. Spoon in hand
and bib across their knees--lest they fleck their careful fronts--they
waited for the anchovy to come. And on a sudden they were cut off from
life, unfit, unseasoned for the passage. Like the elder Hamlet's brother,
they were engaged upon an act that had no relish of salvation in it. You
may remember the lamentable child somewhere in Dickens, who because of an
abrupt and distressing accident, had a sandwich in its hand but no mouth
to put it in. Or perhaps you recall the cook of the Nancy Bell and his
grievous end. The poor fellow was stewed in his own stew-pot. It was the
Elderly Naval Man, you recall--the two of them being the ship's sole
survivors on the deserted island, and both of them lean with hunger--it was
the Elderly Naval Man (the villain of the piece) who "ups with his heels,
and smothers his squeals in the scum of the boiling broth."

And yet by looking on these torsos of the haberdasher, one is not brought
to thoughts of sad mortality. Their joy is so exultant. And all the things
that they hold dear--canes, gloves, silk hats, and the newer garments on
which fashion makes its twaddle--are within reach of their armless sleeves.
Had they fingers they would be smoothing themselves before the glass. Their
unbodied heads, wherever they may be, are still smiling on the world,
despite their divorcement. Their tongues are still ready with a jest, their
lips still parted for the anchovy to come.

A few days since, as I was thinking--for so I am pleased to call my muddy
stirrings--what manner of essay I might write and how best to sort and lay
out the rummage, it happened pat to my needs that I received from a friend
a book entitled "The Closet of Sir Kenelm Digby Knight Opened." Now, before
it came I had got so far as to select a title. Indeed, I had written the
title on seven different sheets of paper, each time in the hope that by
the run of the words I might leap upon some further thought. Seven times I
failed and in the end the sheets went into the waste basket, possibly
to the co
nfusion of Annie our cook, who may have mistaken them for a
reiterated admonishment towards the governance of her kitchen--at the
least, a hint of my desires and appetite for cheese and pippins.

"The Closet of Sir Kenelm Digby Opened" is a cook book. It is due you
to know this at once, otherwise your thoughts--if your nature be
vagrant--would drift towards family skeletons. Or maybe the domestic traits
prevail and you would think of dress-clothes hanging in camphorated bags
and a row of winter boots upon a shelf.

I am disqualified to pass upon the merits of a cook book, for the reason
that I have little discrimination in food. It is not that I am totally
indifferent to what lies on the platter. Indeed, I have more than a tribal
aversion to pork in general, while, on the other hand, I quicken joyfully
when noodles are interspersed with bacon. I have a tooth for sweets, too,
although I hold it unmanly and deny it as I can. I am told also--although
I resent it--that my eye lights up on the appearance of a tray of French
pastry. I admit gladly, however, my love of onions, whether they come
hissing from the skillet, or lie in their first tender whiteness. They
are at their best when they are placed on bread and are eaten largely at
midnight after society has done its worst.

A fine dinner is lost within me. A quail is but an inferior chicken--a poor
relation outside the exclusive hennery. Terrapin sits low in my regard,
even though it has wallowed in the most aristocratic marsh. Through such
dinners I hack and saw my way without even gaining a memory of my progress.
If asked the courses, I balk after the recital of the soup. Indeed, I am so
forgetful of food, even when I dine at home, that I can well believe that
Adam when he was questioned about the apple was in real confusion. He had
or he had not. It was mixed with the pomegranate or the quince that Eve had
sliced and cooked on the day before.

A dinner at its best is brought to a single focus. There is one dish
to dominate the cloth, a single bulk to which all o
ther dishes are
subordinate. If there be turkey, it should mount from a central platter.
Its protruding legs out-top the candles. All other foods are, as it were,
privates in Caesar's army. They do no more than flank the pageant. Nor may
the pantry hold too many secrets. Within reason, everything should be
set out at once, or at least a gossip of its coming should run before.
Otherwise, if the stew is savory, how shall one reserve a corner for the
custard? One must partition himself justly--else, by an over-stowage at the
end, he list and sink.

I am partial to picnics--the spreading of the cloth in the woods or beside
a stream--although I am not avid for sandwiches unless hunger press me.
Rather, let there be a skillet in the company and let a fire be started!
Nor need a picnic consume the day. In summer it requires but the late
afternoon, with such borrowing of the night as is necessary for the
journey home. You leave the street car, clanking with your bundles like an
itinerant tinman. You follow a stream, which on these lower stretches, it
is sad to say, is already infected with the vices of the city. Like many a
countryman who has come to town, it has fallen to dissipation. It shows the
marks of the bottle. Further up, its course is cleaner. You cross it in the
mud. Was it not Christian who fell into the bog because of the burden on
his back? Then you climb a villainously long hill and pop out upon an open
platform above the city.

The height commands a prospect to the west. Below is the smoke of a
thousand suppers. Up from the city there comes the hum of life, now
somewhat fallen with the traffic of the day--as though Nature already
practiced the tune for sending her creatures off to sleep. You light a
fire. The baskets disgorge their secrets. Ants and other leviathans think
evidently that a circus has come or that bears are in the town. The chops
and bacon achieve their appointed destiny. You throw the last bone across
your shoulder. It slips and rattles to the river. The sun sets. Night like
an ancient dam
e puts on her jewels:

 And now that I have climbed and won this height,
 I must tread downward through the sloping shade
 And travel the bewildered tracks till night.
 Yet for this hour I still may here be stayed
 And see the gold air and the silver fade
 And the last bird fly into the last light.

By these confessions you will see how unfit I am to comment on the old cook
book of Sir Kenelm Digby. Yet it lies before me. It may have escaped your
memory in the din of other things, that in the time when Oliver Cromwell
still walked the earth, there lived in England a man by the name of Kenelm
Digby, who was renowned in astrology and alchemy, piracy, wit, philosophy
and fashion. It appears that wherever learning wagged its bulbous head, Sir
Kenelm was of the company. It appears, also, that wherever the mahogany did
most groan, wherever the possets were spiced most delicately to the nose,
there too did Sir Kenelm bib and tuck himself. With profundity, as
though he sucked wisdom from its lowest depth, he spouted forth on the
transmutation of the baser metals or tossed you a phrase from Paracelsus.
Or with long instructive finger he dissertated on the celestial universe.
One would have thought that he had stood by on the making of it and that
his judgment had prevailed in the larger problems. Yet he did not neglect
his trencher.

And now as time went on, the richness of the food did somewhat dominate his
person. The girth of his wisdom grew no less, but his body fattened. In
a word, the good gentleman's palate came to vie with his intellect. Less
often was he engaged upon some dark saying of Isidore of Seville. Rather,
even if his favorite topic astrology were uppermost about the table, his
eye travelled to the pantry on every change of dishes. His fingers, too,
came to curl most delicately on his fork. He used it like an epicure,
poking his viands apart for sharpest scrutiny. His nod upon a compote was
much esteemed.

Now mark his further decline! On an occasion--surely the old rascal's head
is turned!--he would be f
ound in private talk with his hostess, the Lady of
Middlesex, or with the Countess of Monmouth, not as you might expect, on
the properties of fire or on the mortal diseases of man, but--on subjects
quite removed. Society, we may be sure, began to whisper of these snug
parleys in the arbor after dinner, these shadowed mumblings on the balcony
when the moon was up--and Lady Digby stiffened into watchfulness. It was
when they took leave that she saw the Countess slip a note into her lord's
fingers. Her jealousy broke out. "Viper!" She spat the words and seized her
husband's wrist. Of course the note was read. It proved, however, that Sir
Kenelm was innocent of all mischief. To the disappointment of the gossips,
who were tuned to a spicier anticipation, the note was no more than a
recipe of the manner that the Countess was used to mix her syllabub, with
instruction that it was the "rosemary a little bruised and the limon-peal
that did quicken the taste." Advice, also, followed in the postscript on
the making of tea, with counsel that "the boiling water should remain upon
it just so long as one might say a _miserere_." A mutual innocence being
now established, the Lady Digby did by way of apology peck the Countess on
the cheek.

Sir Kenelm died in 1665, full of years. In that day his fame rested chiefly
on his books in physic and chirurgery. His most enduring work was still to
be published--"The Closet Opened."

It was two years after his death that his son came upon a bundle of his
father's papers that had hitherto been overlooked. I fancy that he went
spying in the attic on a rainy day. In the darkest corner, behind the
rocking horse--if such devices were known in those distant days--he came
upon a trunk of his father's papers. "Od's fish," said Sir Kenelm's son,
"here's a box of manuscripts. It is like that they pertain to alchemy or
chirurgery." He pulled out a bundle and held it to the light--such light as
came through the cobwebs of the ancient windows. "Here be strange matters,"
he exclaimed. Then he read aloud
: "My Lord of Bristol's Scotch collops are
thus made: Take a leg of fine sweet mutton, that to make it tender, is
kept as long as possible may be without stinking. In winter seven or eight
days"--"Ho! Ho!" cried Sir Kenelm's son. "This is not alchemy!" He drew out
another parchment and read again: "My Lord of Carlile's sack posset, how
it's made: Take a pottle of cream and boil in it a little whole cinnamon
and three or four flakes of mace. Boil it until it simpreth and bubbleth."

By this time, as you may well imagine, Sir Kenelm's son was wrought to an
excitement. It is likely that he inherited his father's palate and that the
juices of his appetite were stirred. Seizing an armful of the papers, he
leaped down the attic steps, three at a time. His lady mother thrust a
curled and papered head from her door and asked whether the chimney were
afire, but he did not heed her. The cook was waddling in her pattens. He
cried to her to throw wood upon the fire.

That night the Digby household was served a delicacy, red herrings broiled
in the fashion of my Lord d'Aubigny, "short and crisp and laid upon a
sallet." Also, there was a wheaten flommery as it was made in the West
Country--for the cook chose quite at random--and a slip-coat cheese as
Master Phillips proportioned it. Also, against the colic, which was
ravishing the country, the cook prepared a metheglin as Lady Stuart mixed
it--"nettles, fennel and grumel seeds, of each two ounces being small-cut
and mixed with honey and boiled together." It is on record that the Lady
Digby smiled for the first time since her lord had died, and when the
grinning cook bore in the platter, she beat upon the table with her spoon.

The following morning, Sir Kenelm's son posted to London bearing the
recipes, with a pistol in the pocket of his great coat against the crossing
of Hounslow Heath. He went to a printer at the Star in Little Britain whose
name was H. Brome.

Shortly the book appeared. It was the son who wrote the preface: "There
needs no Rhetoricating Floscules to set it 
off. The Authour, as is well
known, having been a Person of Eminency for his Learning, and of Exquisite
Curiosity in his Researches. Even that Incomparable Sir Kenelme Digbie
Knight, Fellow of the Royal Society and Chancellour to the Queen Mother,
(Et omen in Nomine) His name does sufficiently Auspicate the Work." The
sale of the book is not recorded. It is supposed that the Lady Middlesex,
so many of whose recipes had been used, directed that her chair be carried
to the shop where the book was for sale and that she bought largely of it.
The Countess of Dorset bought a copy and spelled it out word for word to
her cook. As for the Lady Monmouth, she bought not a single copy, which
neglect on coming to the Digbys aroused a coolness.

To this day it is likely that a last auspicated volume still sits on its
shelf with the spice jars in some English country kitchen and that a worn
and toothless cook still thumbs its leaves. If the guests about the table
be of an antique mind, still will they pledge one another with its honeyed
drinks, still will they pipe and whistle of its virtues, still will they--

"EAT"--A flaring sign hangs above the sidewalk. By this time, in our
noonday search for food, we have come into the thick of the restaurants. In
the jungle of the city, here is the feeding place. Here come the growling
bipeds for such bones and messes as are thrown them.

The waiter thrusts a card beneath my nose. "Nice leg of lamb, sir?" I waved
him off. "Hold a bit!" I cried. "You'll fetch me a capon in white broth as
my Lady Monmouth broileth hers. Put plentiful sack in it and boil it until
it simpreth!" The waiter scratched his head. "The chicken pie is good," he
said. "It's our Wednesday dish." "Varlet!" I cried--then softened. "Let it
be the chicken pie! But if the cook knoweth the manner that Lord Carlile
does mix and pepper it, let that manner be followed to the smallest
fraction of a pinch!"

On Buying Old Books

By some slim chance, reader, you may be the kind of person who, on a visit
to a strange city, makes 
for a bookshop. Of course your slight temporal
business may detain you in the earlier hours of the day. You sit with
committees and stroke your profound chin, or you spend your talent in the
market, or run to and fro and wag your tongue in persuasion. Or, if you be
on a holiday, you strain yourself on the sights of the city, against being
caught in an omission. The bolder features of a cathedral must be grasped
to satisfy a quizzing neighbor lest he shame you later on your hearth, a
building must be stuffed inside your memory, or your pilgrim feet must wear
the pavement of an ancient shrine. However, these duties being done and the
afternoon having not yet declined, do you not seek a bookshop to regale
yourself?

Doubtless, we have met. As you have scrunched against the shelf not to
block the passage, but with your head thrown back to see the titles up
above, you have noticed at the corner of your eye--unless it was one of
your blinder moments when you were fixed wholly on the shelf--a man in
a slightly faded overcoat of mixed black and white, a man just past the
nimbleness of youth, whose head is plucked of its full commodity of hair.
It was myself. I admit the portrait, though modesty has curbed me short of
justice.

Doubtless, we have met. It was your umbrella--which you held villainously
beneath your arm--that took me in the ribs when you lighted on a set of
Fuller's Worthies. You recall my sour looks, but it was because I had
myself lingered on the volumes but cooled at the price. How you smoothed
and fingered them! With what triumph you bore them off! I bid you--for I
see you in a slippered state, eased and unbuttoned after dinner--I bid you
turn the pages with a slow thumb, not to miss the slightest tang of their
humor. You will of course go first, because of its broad fame, to the page
on Shakespeare and Ben Jonson and their wet-combats at the Mermaid. But
before the night is too far gone and while yet you can hold yourself from
nodding, you will please read about Captain John Smith of Virginia and his
"s
trange performances, the scene whereof is laid at such a distance, they
are cheaper credited than confuted."

In no proper sense am I a buyer of old books. I admit a bookish quirk
maybe, a love of the shelf, a weakness for morocco, especially if it is
stained with age. I will, indeed, shirk a wedding for a bookshop. I'll
go in "just to look about a bit, to see what the fellow has," and on an
occasion I pick up a volume. But I am innocent of first editions. It is
a stiff courtesy, as becomes a democrat, that I bestow on this form
of primogeniture. Of course, I have nosed my way with pleasure along
aristocratic shelves and flipped out volumes here and there to ask their
price, but for the greater part, it is the plainer shops that engage me. If
a rack of books is offered cheap before the door, with a fixed price upon a
card, I come at a trot. And if a brown dust lies on them, I bow and sniff
upon the rack, as though the past like an ancient <DW2> in peruke and buckle
were giving me the courtesy of its snuff box. If I take the dust in my
nostrils and chance to sneeze, it is the fit and intended observance toward
the manners of a former century.

I have in mind such a bookshop in Bath, England. It presents to the street
no more than a decent front, but opens up behind like a swollen bottle.
There are twenty rooms at least, piled together with such confusion of
black passages and winding steps, that one might think that the owner
himself must hold a thread when he visits the remoter rooms. Indeed, such
are the obscurities and dim turnings of the place, that, were the legend of
the Minotaur but English, you might fancy that the creature still lived in
this labyrinth, to nip you between his toothless gums--for the beast grows
old--at some darker corner. There is a story of the place, that once a raw
clerk having been sent to rummage in the basement, his candle tipped off
the shelf. He was left in so complete darkness that his fears overcame his
judgment and for two hours he roamed and babbled among the barrels. Nor was

his absence discovered until the end of the day when, as was the custom,
the clerks counted noses at the door. When they found him, he bolted up the
steps, nor did he cease his whimper until he had reached the comforting
twilight of the outer world. He served thereafter in the shop a full two
years and had a beard coming--so the story runs--before he would again
venture beyond the third turning of the passage; to the stunting of his
scholarship, for the deeper books lay in the farther windings.

Or it may appear credible that in ages past a jealous builder contrived the
place. Having no learning himself and being at odds with those of better
opportunity, he twisted the pattern of the house. Such was his evil temper,
that he set the steps at a dangerous hazard in the dark, in order that
scholars--whose eyes are bleared at best--might risk their legs to the end
of time. Those of strict orthodoxy have even suspected the builder to have
been an atheist, for they have observed what double joints and steps and
turnings confuse the passage to the devouter books--the Early Fathers in
particular being up a winding stair where even the soberest reader might
break his neck. Be these things as they may, leather bindings in sets of
"grenadier uniformity" ornament the upper and lighter rooms. Biography
straggles down a hallway, with a candle needed at the farther end. A room
of dingy plays--Wycherley, Congreve and their crew--looks out through an
area grating. It was through even so foul an eye, that when alive, they
looked upon the world. As for theology, except for the before-mentioned
Fathers, it sits in general and dusty convention on the landing to the
basement, its snuffy sermons, by a sad misplacement--or is there an
ironical intention?--pointing the way to the eternal abyss below.

It was in this shop that I inquired whether there was published a book on
piracy in Cornwall. Now, I had lately come from Tintagel on the Cornish
coast, and as I had climbed upon the rocks and looked down upon the sea, I
had wondered to myse
lf whether, if the knowledge were put out before me, I
could compose a story of Spanish treasure and pirates. For I am a prey to
such giddy ambition. A foul street--if the buildings slant and topple--will
set me thinking delightfully of murders. A wharf-end with water lapping
underneath and bits of rope about will set me itching for a deep-sea plot.
Or if I go on broader range and see in my fancy a broken castle on a hill,
I'll clear its moat and sound trumpets on its walls. If there is pepper
in my mood, I'll storm its dungeon. Or in a softer moment I'll trim its
unsubstantial towers with pageantry and rest upon my elbow until I fall
asleep. So being cast upon the rugged Cornish coast whose cliffs are so
swept with winter winds that the villages sit for comfort in the hollows,
it was to be expected that my thoughts would run toward pirates.

There is one rock especially which I had climbed in the rain and fog of
early morning. A reckless path goes across its face with a sharp pitch to
the ocean. It was so slippery and the wind so tugged and pulled to throw me
off, that although I endangered my dignity, I played the quadruped on the
narrower parts. But once on top in the open blast of the storm and safe
upon the level, I thumped with desire for a plot. In each inlet from the
ocean I saw a pirate lugger--such is the pleasing word--with a keg of rum
set up. Each cranny led to a cavern with doubloons piled inside. The
very tempest in my ears was compounded out of ships at sea and wreck and
pillage. I needed but a plot, a thread of action to string my villains on.
If this were once contrived, I would spice my text with sailors' oaths and
such boasting talk as might lie in my invention. Could I but come upon a
plot, I might yet proclaim myself an author.

With this guilty secret in me I blushed as I asked the question. It seemed
sure that the shopkeeper must guess my purpose. I felt myself suspected as
though I were a rascal buying pistols to commit a murder. Indeed, I seem
to remember having read that even hardened c
riminals have become confused
before a shopkeeper and betrayed themselves. Of course, Dick Turpin and
Jerry Abershaw could call for pistols in the same easy tone they ordered
ale, but it would take a practiced villainy. But I in my innocence wanted
nothing but the meager outline of a pirate's life, which I might fatten to
my uses.

But on a less occasion, when there is no plot thumping in me, I still feel
a kind of embarrassment when I ask for a book out of the general demand. I
feel so like an odd stick. This embarrassment applies not to the request
for other commodities. I will order a collar that is quite outside the
fashion, in a high-pitched voice so that the whole shop can hear. I could
bargain for a purple waistcoat--did my taste run so--and though the
sidewalk listened, it would not draw a blush. I have traded even for
women's garments--though this did strain me--without an outward twitch.
Finally, to top my valor, I have bought sheet music of the lighter kind and
have pronounced the softest titles so that all could hear. But if I desire
the poems of Lovelace or the plays of Marlowe, I sidle close up to the
shopkeeper to get his very ear. If the book is visible, I point my thumb at
it without a word.

It was but the other day--in order to fill a gap in a paper I was
writing--I desired to know the name of an author who is obscure although
his work has been translated into nearly all languages. I wanted to know a
little about the life of the man who wrote _Mary Had a Little Lamb_, which,
I am told, is known by children over pretty much all the western world. It
needed only a trip to the Public Library. Any attendant would direct me to
the proper shelf. Yet once in the building, my courage oozed. My question,
though serious, seemed too ridiculous to be asked. I would sizzle as I
met the attendant's eye. Of a consequence, I fumbled on my own devices,
possibly to the increase of my general knowledge, but without gaining what
I sought.

They had no book in the Bath shop on piracy in Cornwall. I was offered
inst
ead a work in two volumes on the notorious highwaymen of history, and
for a moment my plot swerved in that direction. But I put it by. To pay the
fellow for his pains--for he had dug in barrels to his shoulders and had a
smudge across his nose--I bought a copy of Thomson's "Castle of Indolence,"
and in my more energetic moods I read it. And so I came away.

On leaving the shop, lest I should be nipped in a neglect, I visited the
Roman baths. Then I took the waters in the Assembly Room. It was Sam
Weller, you may recall, who remarked, when he was entertained by the select
footmen, that the waters tasted like warm flat-irons. Finally, I viewed
the Crescent around which the shirted Winkle ran with the valorous Dowler
breathing on his neck. With such distractions, as you may well imagine,
Cornish pirates became as naught. Such mental vibration as I had was now
gone toward a tale of fashion in the days when Queen Anne was still alive.
Of a consequence, I again sought the bookshop and stifling my timidity, I
demanded such volumes as might set me most agreeably to my task.

I have in mind also a bookshop of small pretension in a town in Wales. For
purely secular delight, maybe, it was too largely composed of Methodist
sermons. Hell fire burned upon its shelves with a warmth to singe so poor a
worm as I. Yet its signboard popped its welcome when I had walked ten miles
of sunny road. Possibly it was the chair rather than the divinity that
keeps the place in memory. The owner was absent on an errand, and his
daughter, who had been clumping about the kitchen on my arrival, was
uninstructed in the price marks. So I read and fanned myself until his
return.

Perhaps my sluggishness toward first editions--to which I have hinted
above--comes in part from the acquaintance with a man who in a linguistic
outburst as I met him, pronounced himself to be a numismatist and
philatelist. One only of these names would have satisfied a man of less
conceit. It is as though the pteranodon should claim also to be the
spoon-bill dinosaur. It i
s against modesty that one man should summon all
the letters. No, the numismatist's head is not crammed with the mysteries
of life and death, nor is a philatelist one who is possessed with the
dimmer secrets of eternity. Rather, this man who was so swelled with
titles, eked a living by selling coins and stamps, and he was on his way
to Europe to replenish his wares. Inside his waistcoat, just above his
liver--if he owned so human an appendage--he carried a magnifying glass.
With this, when the business fit was on him, he counted the lines and dots
upon a stamp, the perforations on its edge. He catalogued its volutes, its
stipples, the frisks and curlings of its pattern. He had numbered the very
hairs on the head of George Washington, for in such minutiae did the value
of the stamp reside. Did a single hair spring up above the count, it would
invalidate the issue. Such values, got by circumstance or accident--resting
on a flaw--founded on a speck--cause no ferment of my desires.

For the buying of books, it is the cheaper shops where I most often prowl.
There is in London a district around Charing Cross Road where almost every
shop has books for sale. There is a continuous rack along the sidewalk,
each title beckoning for your attention. You recall the class of
street-readers of whom Charles Lamb wrote--"poor gentry, who, not having
wherewithal to buy or hire a book, filch a little learning at the open
stalls." It was on some such street that these folk practiced their
innocent larceny. If one shopkeeper frowned at the diligence with which
they read "Clarissa," they would continue her distressing adventures across
the way. By a lingering progress up the street, "Sir Charles Grandison"
might be nibbled down--by such as had the stomach--without the outlay of
a single penny. As for Gibbon and the bulbous historians, though a whole
perusal would outlast the summer and stretch to the colder months, yet with
patience they could be got through. However, before the end was come even a
hasty reader whose eye was nimble on 
the page would be blowing on his nails
and pulling his tails between him and the November wind.

But the habit of reading at the open stalls was not only with the poor. You
will remember that Mr. Brownlow was addicted. Really, had not the Artful
Dodger stolen his pocket handkerchief as he was thus engaged upon his book,
the whole history of Oliver Twist must have been quite different. And Pepys
himself, Samuel Pepys, F.R.S., was guilty. "To Paul's Church Yard," he
writes, "and there looked upon the second part of Hudibras, which I buy
not, but borrow to read." Such parsimony is the curse of authors. To thumb
a volume cheaply around a neighborhood is what keeps them in their garrets.
It is a less offence to steal peanuts from a stand. Also, it is recorded in
the life of Beau Nash that the persons of fashion of his time, to pass a
tedious morning "did divert themselves with reading in the booksellers'
shops." We may conceive Mr. Fanciful Fopling in the sleepy blink of those
early hours before the pleasures of the day have made a start, inquiring
between his yawns what latest novels have come down from London, or whether
a new part of "Pamela" is offered yet. If the post be in, he will prop
himself against the shelf and--unless he glaze and nod--he will read
cheaply for an hour. Or my Lady Betty, having taken the waters in the
pump-room and lent her ear to such gossip as is abroad so early, is now
handed to her chair and goes round by Gregory's to read a bit. She is
flounced to the width of the passage. Indeed, until the fashion shall
abate, those more solid authors that are set up in the rear of the shop,
must remain during her visits in general neglect. Though she hold herself
against the shelf and tilt her hoops, it would not be possible to pass. She
is absorbed in a book of the softer sort, and she flips its pages against
her lap-dog's nose.

But now behold the student coming up the street! He is clad in shining
black. He is thin of shank as becomes a scholar. He sags with knowledge. He
hungers after wisdom. He 
comes opposite the bookshop. It is but coquetry
that his eyes seek the window of the tobacconist. His heart, you may be
sure, looks through the buttons at his back. At last he turns. He pauses on
the curb. Now desire has clutched him. He jiggles his trousered shillings.
He treads the gutter. He squints upon the rack. He lights upon a treasure.
He plucks it forth. He is unresolved whether to buy it or to spend the
extra shilling on his dinner. Now all you cooks together, to save your
business, rattle your pans to rouse him! If within these ancient buildings
there are onions ready peeled--quick!--throw them in the skillet that the
whiff may come beneath his nose! Chance trembles and casts its vote--eenie
meenie--down goes the shilling--he has bought the book. Tonight he will
spread it beneath his candle. Feet may beat a snare of pleasure on the
pavement, glad cries may pipe across the darkness, a fiddle may scratch its
invitation--all the rumbling notes of midnight traffic will tap in vain
their summons upon his window.

Any Stick Will Do To Beat A Dog

Reader, possibly on one of your country walks you have come upon a man with
his back against a hedge, tormented by a fiend in the likeness of a dog.
You yourself, of course, are not a coward. You possess that cornerstone of
virtue, a love for animals. If at your heels a dog sniffs and growls, you
humor his mistake, you flick him off and proceed with unbroken serenity. It
is scarcely an interlude to your speculation on the market. Or if you work
upon a sonnet and are in the vein, your thoughts, despite the beast, run
unbroken to a rhyme. But pity this other whose heart is less stoutly
wrapped! He has gone forth on a holiday to take the country air, to thrust
himself into the freer wind, to poke with his stick for such signs of
Spring as may be hiding in the winter's leaves. Having been grinding in an
office he flings himself on the great round world. He has come out to smell
the earth. Or maybe he seeks a hilltop for a view of the fields that lie
below patched in man
y colors, as though nature had been sewing at her
garments and had mended the cloth from her bag of scraps.

On such a journey this fellow is travelling when, at a turn of the road, he
hears the sound of barking. As yet there is no dog in sight. He pauses. He
listens. How shall one know whether the sound comes up a wrathful gullet or
whether the dog bays at him impersonally, as at the distant moon? Or maybe
he vents himself upon a stubborn cow. Surely it is not an idle tune he
practices. He holds a victim in his mind. There is sour venom on his
churlish tooth. Is it best to go roundabout, or forward with such a nice
compound of innocence, boldness and modesty as shall satisfy the beast? If
one engross oneself on something that lies to the lee of danger, it allays
suspicion. Or if one absorb oneself upon the flora--a primrose on the
river's brim--it shows him clear and stainless. The stupidest dog should
see that so close a student can have no evil in him. Perhaps it would be
better to throw away one's stick lest it make a show of violence. Or it may
be concealed along the outer leg. Ministers of Grace defend us, what an
excitement in the barnyard! Has virtue no reward? Shall innocence perish
off the earth? Not one dog, but many, come running out. There has gone
a rumor about the barn that there is a stranger to be eaten, and it's
likely--if they keep their clamor--there will be a bone for each. Note how
the valor oozes from the man of peace! Observe his sidling gait, his skirts
pulled close, his hollowed back, his head bent across his shoulder, his
startled eye! Watch him mince his steps, lest a lingering heel be nipped!
Listen to him try the foremost dog with names, to gull him to a belief that
they have met before in happier circumstances! He appeals mutely to the
farmhouse that a recall be sounded. The windows are tightly curtained. The
heavens are comfortless.

You remember the fellow in the play who would have loved war had they not
digged villainous saltpetre from the harmless earth. The countryside, too,
i
n my opinion, would be more peaceful of a summer afternoon were it not
overrun with dogs. Let me be plain! I myself like dogs--sleepy dogs
blinking in the firelight, friendly dogs with wagging tails, young dogs in
their first puppyhood with their teeth scarce sprouted, whose jaws have not
yet burgeoned into danger, and old dogs, too, who sun themselves and give
forth hollow, toothless, reassuring sounds. When a dog assumes the cozy
habits of the cat without laying off his nobler nature, he is my friend. A
dog of vegetarian aspect pleases me. Let him bear a mild eye as though he
were nourished on the softer foods! I would wish every dog to have a full
complement of tail. It's the sure barometer of his warm regard. There's no
art to find his mind's construction in the face. And I would have him with
not too much curiosity. It's a quality that brings him too often to the
gate. It makes him prone to sniff when one sits upon a visit. Nor do I like
dogs addicted to sudden excitement. Lethargy becomes them better. Let them
be without the Gallic graces! In general, I like a dog to whom I have been
properly introduced, with an exchange of credentials. While the dog is by,
let his master take my hand and address me in softest tones, to cement the
understanding! At bench-shows I love the beasts, although I keep to the
middle of the aisle. The streets are all the safer when so many of the
creatures are kept within.

Frankly, I would enjoy the country more, if I knew that all the dogs were
away on visits. Of course, the highroad is quite safe. Its frequent traffic
is its insurance. Then, too, the barns are at such a distance, it is only a
monstrous anger can bring the dog. But if you are in need of direction you
select a friendly white house with green shutters. You swing open the gate
and crunch across the pebbles to the door. To the nearer eye there is a
look of "dog" about the place. Or maybe you are hot and thirsty, and there
is a well at the side of the house. Is it better to gird yourself to danger
or to put off your th
irst until the crossroads where pop is sold?

Or a lane leads down to the river. Even at this distance you hear the
shallow brawl of water on the stones. A path goes off across a hill, with
trees beckoning at the top. There is a wind above and a wider sweep of
clouds. Surely, from the crest of the hill the whole county will lie before
you. Such tunes as come up from the world below--a school-bell, a rooster
crowing, children laughing on the road, a threshing machine on the lower
meadows--such tunes are pitched to a marvellous softness. Shall we follow
the hot pavement, or shall we dare those lonely stretches?

There is a kind of person who is steeped too much in valor. He will cross a
field although there is a dog inside the fence. Goodness knows that I would
rather keep to the highroad with such humility as shall not rouse the
creature. Or he will shout and whistle tunes that stir the dogs for miles.
He slashes his stick against the weeds as though in challenge. One might
think that he went about on unfeeling stalks instead of legs as children
walk on stilts, or that a former accident had clipped him off above the
knees and that he was now jointed out of wood to a point beyond the biting
limit. Or perhaps the clothes he wears beneath--the inner mesh and very
balbriggan of his attire--is of so hard a texture that it turns a tooth. Be
these defenses as they may, note with what bravado he mounts the wall! One
leg dangles as though it were baited and were angling for a bite.

There is a French village near Quebec whose population is chiefly dogs.
It lies along the river in a single street, not many miles from the point
where Wolfe climbed to the Plains of Abraham. There are a hundred houses
flat against the roadway and on the steps of each there sits a dog. As I
went through on foot, each of these dogs picked me up, examined me nasally
and passed me on, not generously as though I had stood the test, but rather
in deep suspicion that I was a queer fellow, not to be penetrated at first,
but one who would surely be fou
nd out and gobbled before coming to the
end of the street. As long as I would eventually furnish forth the common
banquet, it mattered not which dog took the first nip. Inasmuch as I would
at last be garnished for the general tooth, it would be better to wait
until all were gathered around the platter. "Good neighbor dog," each
seemed to say, "you too sniff upon the rogue! If he be honest, my old nose
is much at fault." Meantime I padded lightly through the village, at first
calling on the dogs by English names, but later using such wisps as I had
of French. "Aucassin, mon pauvre chien. Voici, Tintagiles, alors donc mon
cherie. Je suis votre ami," but with little effect.

But the dogs that one meets in the Canadian woods are of the fiercest
breed. They border on the wolf. They are called huskies and they are so
strong and so fleet of foot that they pull sleds for hours across the
frozen lakes at almost the speed of a running horse. It must be confessed
that they are handsome and if it happens to be your potato peelings and
discarded fish that they eat, they warm into friendliness. Indeed, on these
occasions, one can make quite a show of bravery by stroking and dealing
lightly with them. But once upon a time in an ignorant moment two other
campers and myself followed a lonely railroad track and struck off on a
path through the pines in search of a certain trapper on a fur farm. The
path went on a broken zigzag avoiding fallen trees and soft hollows,
conducting itself on the whole with more patience than firmness. We walked
a quarter of a mile, but still we saw no cabin. The line of the railroad
had long since disappeared. An eagle wheeled above us and quarrelled at our
intrusion. Presently to test our course and learn whether we were coming
near the cabin, we gave a shout. Immediately out of the deeper woods there
came a clamor that froze us. Such sounds, it seemed, could issue only from
bloody and dripping jaws. In a panic, as by a common impulse we turned and
ran. Yet we did not run frankly as when the circus li
on is loose, but in a
shamefaced manner--an attempt at a retreat in good order--something between
a walk and a run. At the end of a hundred yards we stopped. No dogs had
fallen on us. Danger had not burst its kennel. We hallooed again, to rouse
the trapper. At last, after a minute of suspense, came his answering voice,
the sweetest sound to be imagined. Whereupon I came down from my high stump
which I had climbed for a longer view.

I am convinced that I am not alone in my--shall I say diffidence?--toward
dogs. Indeed, there is evidence from the oldest times that mankind, in its
more honest moments, has confessed to a fear of dogs. In recognition of
this general fear, the unmuzzled Cerberus was put at the gate of Hades.
It was rightly felt that when the unhappy pilgrims got within, his fifty
snapping heads were better than a bolt upon the door. It was better for
them to endure the ills they had, than be nipped in the upper passage. He,
also, who first spoke the ancient proverb, _Let sleeping dogs lie_, did no
more than voice the caution of the street. And he, also, who invented the
saying that the world is going to the bow-wows, lodged his deplorable
pessimism in fitting words.

It was Daniel who sat with the lions. But there are degrees of bravery. On
Long Street, within sight of my window--just where the street gets into its
most tangled traffic--there has hung for many years the painted signboard
of a veterinary surgeon. Its artist was in the first flourish of youth. Old
age had not yet chilled him when he mixed his gaudy colors. The surgeon's
name is set up in modest letters, but the horse below flames with color.
What a flaring nostril! What an eager eye! How arched the neck! Here is a
wrath and speed unknown to the quadrupeds of this present Long Street. Such
mild-eyed, accumbent, sharp-ribbed horses as now infest the curb--mere
whittlings from a larger age--hang their heads at their degeneracy. Indeed,
these horses seem to their owners not to be worth the price of a nostrum.
If disease settles in them, let
 them lean against a post until the fit is
past! And of a consequence, the doctor's work has fallen off. It has
become a rare occasion when it is permitted him to stroke his chin in
contemplation of some inner palsy. Therefore to give his wisdom scope,
the doctor some time since announced the cellar of the building to be a
hospital for dogs. Must I press the analogy? I have seen the doctor with
bowl and spoon in hand take leave of the cheerful world. He opens the
cellar door. A curdling yelp comes up the stairs. In the abyss below there
are twenty dogs at least, all of them sick, all dangerous. Not since Orion
led his hunting pack across the heavens has there been so fierce a sound.
The door closes. There is a final yelp, such as greets a bone. Doubtless,
by this time, they are munching on the doctor. Good sir, had you lived in
pre-apostolic days, your name would have been lined with Daniel's in the
hymn. I might have spent my earliest treble in your praise.

But there are other kinds of dogs. Gentlest of readers, have you ever
passed a few days at Tunbridge Wells? It lies on one of the roads that run
from London to the Channel and for several hundred years persons have gone
there to take the waters against the more fashionable ailments. Its chief
fame was in the days when rich folk, to ward off for the season a touch of
ancestral gout, travelled down from London in their coaches. We may fancy
Lord Thingumdo crossing his sleek legs inside or putting his head to the
window on the change of horses. He has outriders and a horn to sound his
coming. His Lordship has a liver that must be mended, but also he has
a weakness for the gaming table. Or Lady Euphemia, wrapped in silks,
languishes mornings in her lodgings with a latest novel, but goes forth at
noon upon the Pantilles to shop in the stalls. A box of patches must be
bought. A lace flounce has caught her eye. Bless her dear eyes, as she
bends upon her purchase she is fair to look upon. The Grand Rout is set for
tonight. Who knows but that the Duke will put the te
nder question and will
ask her to name the happy day?

But these golden days are past. Tunbridge Wells has sunk from fashion. The
gaming tables are gone. A band still plays mornings in the Pantilles--or
did so before the war--but cheaper gauds are offered in the shops. Emerald
brooches are fallen to paste. In all the season there is scarcely a single
demand for a diamond garter. If there were now a Rout, the only dancers
would be stiff shadows from the past. The healing waters still trickle from
the ground and an old woman serves you for a penny, but the miracle has
gone. The old world is cured and dead.

Tunbridge Wells is visited now chiefly by old ladies whose husbands--to
judge by the black lace caps--have left Lombard Street for heaven. At the
hotel where I stopped, which was at the top of the Commons outside the
thicker town, I was the only man in the breakfast room. Two widows, each
with a tiny dog on a chair beside her, sat at the next table. This was
their conversation:

"Did you hear her last night?"

"Was it Flossie that I heard?"

"Yes. The poor dear was awake all night. She got her feet wet yesterday
when I let her run upon the grass."

But after breakfast--if the day is sunny and the wind sits in a favoring
quarter--one by one the widows go forth in their chairs. These are wicker
contrivances that hang between three wheels. Burros pull them, and men walk
alongside to hold their bridles. Down comes the widow. Down comes a maid
with her wraps. Down comes a maid with Flossie. The wraps are adjusted. The
widow is handed in. Her feet are wound around with comforters against a
draft. Her salts rest in her lap. Her ample bag of knitting is safe aboard.
Flossie is placed beside her. Proot! The donkey starts.

All morning the widow sits in the Pantilles and listens to the band and
knits. Flossie sits on the flagging at her feet with an intent eye upon the
ball of worsted. Twice in a morning--three times if the gods are kind--the
ball rolls to the pavement. Flossie has been waiting so long for this
to happen.
 It is the bright moment of her life--the point and peak of
happiness. She darts upon it. She paws it exultantly for a moment. Brief is
the rainbow and brief the Borealis. The finger of Time is swift.

The poppy blooms and fades. The maid captures the ball of worsted and
restores it.

It lies in the widow's lap. The band plays. The needles click to a long
tune. The healing waters trickle from the ground. The old woman whines
their merits. Flossie sits motionless, her head cocked and her eye upon the
ball. Perhaps the god of puppies will again be good to her.

ROADS OF MORNING

My grandfather's farm lay somewhere this side of the sunset, so near that
its pastures barely missed the splash of color. But from the city it was a
two hours' journey by horse and phaeton. My grandfather drove. I sat next,
my feet swinging clear of the lunchbox. My brother had the outside, a place
denied to me for fear that I might fall across the wheel. When we were
all set, my mother made a last dab at my nose--an unheeded smudge having
escaped my vigilance. Then my grandfather said, "Get up,"--twice, for the
lazy horse chose to regard the first summons as a jest. We start. The great
wheels turn. My brother leans across the guard to view the miracle. We
crunch the gravel. We are alive for excitement. My brother plays we are
a steamboat and toots. I toot in imitation, but higher up as if I were a
younger sort of steamboat. We hold our hands on an imaginary wheel and
steer. We scorn grocery carts and all such harbor craft. We are on a long
cruise. Street lights will guide us sailing home.

Of course there were farms to the south of the city and apples may have
ripened there to as fine a flavor, and to the east, also, doubtless there
were farms. It would be asking too much that the west should have all the
haystacks, cherry trees and cheese houses. If your judgment skimmed upon
the surface, you would even have found the advantage with the south. It was
prettier because more rolling. It was shaggier. The country to the south
tipped up to the
 hills, so sharply in places that it might have made its
living by collecting nickels for the slide. Indeed, one might think that a
part of the city had come bouncing down the <DW72>, for now it lay resting
at the bottom, sprawled somewhat for its ease. Or it might appear--if your
belief runs on discarded lines--that the whole flat-bottomed earth had been
fouled in its celestial course and now lay aslant upon its beam with its
cargo shifted and spilled about.

The city streets that led to the south, which in those days ended in lanes,
popped out of sight abruptly at the top of the first ridge. And when the
earth caught up again with their level, already it was dim and purple and
tall trees were no more than a roughened hedge. But what lay beyond that
range of hills--what towns and cities--what oceans and forests--how beset
with adventure--how fearful after dark--these things you could not see,
even if you climbed to some high place and strained yourself on tiptoe. And
if you walked from breakfast to lunch--until you gnawed within and were but
a hollow drum--there would still be a higher range against the sky. There
are misty kingdoms on this whirling earth, but the ways are long and steep.

The lake lay to the north with no land beyond, the city to the east. But to
the west--

Several miles outside the city as it then was, and still beyond its
clutches, the country was cut by a winding river bottom with sharp edges of
shale. Down this valley Rocky River came brawling in the spring, over-fed
and quarrelsome. Later in the year--its youthful appetite having caught an
indigestion--it shrunk and wasted to a shadow. By August you could cross it
on the stones. The uproar of its former flood was marked upon the shale and
trunks of trees here and there were wedged, but now the river plays drowsy
tunes upon the stones. There is scarcely enough movement of water to flick
the sunlight. A leaf on its idle current is a lazy craft whose skipper
nods. There were hickory trees on the point above. May-apples grew in the
deep woods
, and blackberries along the fences. And in the season sober
horses plowed up and down the fields with nodding heads, affirming their
belief in the goodness of the soil and their willingness to help in its
fruition.

Yet the very core of this valley in days past was a certain depth of water
at a turn of the stream. There was a clay bank above it and on it small
naked boys stood and daubed themselves. One of them put a band of clay
about himself by way of decoration. Another, by a more general smudge, made
himself a Hottentot and thereby gave his manners a wider scope and license.
But by daubing yourself entire you became an Indian and might vent yourself
in hideous yells, for it was amazing how the lungs grew stouter when the
clay was laid on thick. Then you tapped your flattened palm rapidly against
your mouth and released an intermittent uproar in order that the valley
might he warned of the deviltry to come. You circled round and round and
beat upon the ground in the likeness of a war dance. But at last, sated
with scalps, off you dived into the pool and came up a white man. Finally,
you stood on one leg and jounced the water from your ear, or pulled a
bloodsucker from your toes before he sapped your life--for this tiny
creature of the rocks was credited with the gift of prodigious inflation,
and might inhale you, blood, sinews, suspenders and all, if left to his
ugly purpose.

Farms should not be too precisely located; at least this is true of farms
which, like my grandfather's, hang in a mist of memory. I read once of a
wonderful spot--quite inferior, doubtless, to my grandfather's farm--which
was located by evil directions intentionally to throw a seeker off.
Munchausen, you will recall, in the placing of his magic countries, was not
above this agreeable villainy. Robinson Crusoe was loose and vague in the
placing of his island. It is said that Izaak Walton waved a hand obscurely
toward the stream where he had made a catch, but could not be cornered to a
nice direction, lest his pool be overrun. In early yo
uth, I myself went, on
a mischievous hint, to explore a remote region which I was told lay in the
dark behind the kindling pile. But because I moved in a fearful darkness,
quite beyond the pale light from the furnace room, I lost the path. It did
not lead me to the peaks and the roaring waters.

But the farm was reached by more open methods. Dolly and the phaeton were
the chief instruments. First--if you were so sunk in ignorance as not to
know the road--you inquired of everybody for the chewing gum factory, to be
known by its smell of peppermint. Then you sought the high bridge over the
railroad tracks. Beyond was Kamm's Corners. Here, at a turn of the road,
was a general store whose shelves sampled the produce of this whole fair
world and the factories thereof. One might have thought that the proprietor
emulated Noah at the flood by bidding two of each created things to find a
place inside.

Beyond Kamm's Corners you came to the great valley. When almost down the
hill you passed a house with broken windows and unkept grass. This house,
by report, was haunted, but you could laugh at such tales while the morning
sun was up. At the bottom of the hill a bridge crossed the river, with
loose planking that rattled as though the man who made nails was dead.

Beyond the bridge, at the first rise of ground, the horse stopped--for I
assume that you drove a sagacious animal--by way of hint that every one
of sound limb get out and walk to the top of the hill. A suspicious horse
turned his head now and again and cast his eye upon the buggy to be sure
that no one climbed in again.

Presently you came to the toll-gate at the top and paid its keeper five
cents, or whatever large sum he demanded. Then your grandfather--if by
fortunate chance you happened to have one--asked after his wife and
children, and had they missed the croup; then told him his corn was looking
well.

My grandfather--for it is time you knew him--lived with us. Because of a
railway accident fifteen years before in which one of his legs was cut off
just below
 the knee, he had retired from public office. Several years of
broken health had been followed by years that were for the most part free
from suffering. My own first recollection reverts to these better years.
I recall a tall man--to my eyes a giant, for he was taller even than my
father--who came into the nursery as I was being undressed. There was a
wind in the chimney, and the windows rattled. He put his crutches against
the wall. Then taking me in his arms, he swung me aloft to his shoulder
by a series of somersaults. I cried this first time, but later I came to
demand the performance.

Once, when I was a little older, I came upon one of his discarded wooden
legs as I was playing in the garret of the house. It was my first
acquaintance with such a contrivance. It lay behind a pile of trunks and I
was, at the time, on my way to the center of the earth, for the cheerful
path dove into darkness behind the chimney. You may imagine my surprise. I
approached it cautiously. I viewed it from all sides by such dusty light as
fell between the trunks. Not without fear I touched it. It was unmistakably
a leg--but whose? Was it possible that there was a kind of Bluebeard in the
family, who, for his pleasure, lopped off legs? There had been no breath of
such a scandal. Yet, if my reading and studies were correct, such things
had happened in other families not very different from ours; not in our own
town maybe, but in such near-by places as Kandahar and Serendib--places
which in my warm regard were but as suburbs to our street, to be gained if
you persevered for a hundred lamp-posts. Or could the leg belong to Annie
the cook? Her nimbleness with griddle-cakes belied the thought: And once,
when the wind had swished her skirts, manifestly she was whole and sound.
Then all at once I knew it to be my grandfather's. Grown familiar, I pulled
it to the window. I tried it on, but made bad work of walking.

To the eye my grandfather had two legs all the way down and, except for
his crutches and an occasional squeak, you would not h
ave detected his
infirmity. Evidently the maker did no more than imitate nature, although,
for myself, I used to wonder at the poverty of his invention. There would
be distinction in a leg, which in addition to its usual functions, would
also bend forward at the knee, or had a surprising sidewise joint--and
there would be profit, too, if one cared to make a show of it. The greatest
niggard on the street would pay two pins for such a sight.

As my grandfather was the only old gentleman of my acquaintance, a wooden
leg seemed the natural and suitable accompaniment of old age. Persons, it
appeared, in their riper years, cast off a leg, as trees dropped their
leaves. But my grandmother puzzled me. Undeniably she retained both of
hers, yet her hair was just as white, and she was almost as old. Evidently
this law of nature worked only with men. Ladies, it seemed, were not
deciduous. But how the amputation was effected in men--whether by day or
night--how the choice fell between the right and left--whether the wooden
leg came down the chimney (a proper entrance)--how soon my father would go
the way of all masculine flesh and cast his off--these matters I could not
solve. The Arabian Nights were silent on the subject. Aladdin's uncle,
apparently, had both his legs. He was too brisk in villainy to admit a
wooden leg. But then, he was only an uncle. If his history ran out to the
end, doubtless he would go with a limp in his riper days. The story of the
Bible--although it trafficked in such veterans as Methuselah--gave not a
hint. Abraham died full of years. Here would have been a proper test--but
the book was silent.

My grandfather in those days had much leisure time. He still kept an office
at the rear of the house, although he had given up the regular practice
of the law. But a few old clients lingered on, chiefly women who carried
children in their arms and old men without neckties who came to him for
free advice. These he guided patiently in their troubles, and he would sit
an hour to listen to a piteous story. In an 
extremity he gave them money,
or took a well-meant but worthless note. Often his callers overran the
dinner hour and my mother would have to jingle the dinner bell at the door
to rouse them. Occasionally he would be called on for a public speech, and
for several days he would be busy at his desk. Frequently he presided at
dinners and would tell a story and sing a song, for he had a fine bass
voice and was famous for his singing.

He read much in those last years in science. When he was not reading
Trowbridge to his grandchildren, it was Huxley to himself. But when his
eyes grew tired, he would on an occasion--if there was canning in the
house--go into the kitchen where my mother and grandmother worked, and help
pare the fruit. Seriously, as though he were engaged upon a game, he would
cut the skin into thinnest strips, unbroken to the end, and would hold up
the coil for us to see. Or if he broke it in the cutting it was a point
against him in the contest.

His diversion rather than his profit was the care and rental of about
twenty small houses, some of which he built to fit his pensioners. My
brother and myself often made the rounds with him in the phaeton. At most
of the houses he was affectionately greeted as "Jedge" and was held in long
conversations across the fence. And to see an Irishman was to see a friend.
They all knew him and said, "Good mornin'," as we passed. He and they were
good Democrats together.

I can see in memory a certain old Irishman in a red flannel shirt, with his
foot upon the hub, bending across the wheel and gesticulating in an endless
discussion of politics or crops, while my brother and I were impatient to
be off. Dolly was of course patient, for she had long since passed her
fretful youth. If by any biological chance it had happened that she had
been an old lady instead of a horse, she would have been the kind that
spent her day in a rocker with her knitting. Any one who gave Dolly an
excuse for standing was her friend. There she stood as though she wished
the colloquy to last forev
er.

It was seldom that Dolly lost her restraint. She would, indeed, when she
came near the stable, somewhat hasten her stride; and when we came on our
drives to the turning point and at last headed about for home, Dolly would
know it and show her knowledge by a quickening of the ears and the quiver
of a faint excitement. Yet Dolly lost her patience when there were flies.
Then she threw off all repression and so waved her tail that she regularly
got it across the reins. This stirred my grandfather to something not
far short of anger. How vigorously would he try to dislodge the reins
by pulling and jerking! Dolly only clamped down her tail the harder.
Experience showed that the only way was to go slowly and craftily and
without heat or temper--a slackening of the reins--a distraction of Dolly's
attention--a leaning across the dashboard--a firm grasping of the tail out
near the end--a sudden raising thereof. Ah! It was done. We all settled
back against the cushions. Or perhaps a friendly fly would come to our
assistance and Dolly would have to use her tail in another direction.

The whip was seldom used. Generally it stood in its socket. It was
ornamental like a flagstaff. It forgot its sterner functions. But Dolly
must have known the whip in some former life, for even a gesture toward the
socket roused her. If it was rattled she mended her pace for a block. But
if on a rare occasion my grandfather took it in his hand, Dolly lay one ear
back in our direction, for she knew then he meant business. And what an
excitement would arise in the phaeton! We held on tight for fear that she
might take it into her mild old head to run away.

But Dolly had her moments. One sunny summer afternoon while she grazed
peacefully in the orchard, with her reins wound around the whip handle--the
appropriate place on these occasions--she was evidently stung by a bee. My
brother was at the time regaling himself in a near-by blackberry thicket.
He looked up at an unusual sound. Without warning, Dolly had leaped to
action and was tearing ar
ound the orchard dragging the phaeton behind
her. She wrecked the top on a low hanging branch, then hit another tree,
severing thereby all connection between herself and the phaeton, and at
last galloped down the lane to the farm house, with the broken shafts and
harness dangling behind her. Kipling's dun "with the mouth of a bell and
the heart of Hell and the head of the gallows-tree," could hardly have
shown more spirit. It was as though one brief minute of a glorious youth
had come back to her. It was a last spurting of an old flame before it sunk
to ash.

My grandfather gave his leisure to his grandchildren. He carved for us with
his knife, with an especial knack for willow whistles. He showed us the
colors that lay upon the world when we looked at it through one of the
glass pendants of the parlor chandelier. He sat by us when we played
duck-on-the-rock. He helped us with our kites and gave a superintendence to
our toys. It is true that he was superficial with tin-tags and did not know
the difference in value between a Steam Engine tag--the rarest of them
all--and a common Climax, but we forgave him as one forgives a friend who
is ignorant of Persian pottery. He employed us as gardeners and put a
bounty on weeds. We watered the lawn together, turn by turn. When I was
no more than four years old, he taught us to play casino with him--and
afterwards bezique. How he cried out if he got a royal sequence! With what
excitement he announced a double bezique! Or if one of us seemed about to
score and lacked but a single card, how intently he contended for the last
few tricks to thwart our declaration! And if we got it despite his lead
of aces, how gravely he squinted on the cards against deception, with his
glasses forward on his nose!

When he took his afternoon nap and lay upon his back on the sofa in the
sitting-room, we made paper pin-wheels to see whether his breath would
stir them. This trick having come to his notice by a sudden awakening, he
sometimes thereafter played to be asleep and snored in such a might
y gust
that the wheels spun. He was like a Dutch tempest against a windmill.

If a Dime Museum came to town we made an afternoon of it. He took us to all
the circuses and gave us our choice of side-shows. We walked up and
down before the stretches of painted canvas, balancing in our desire a
sword-swallower against an Indian Princess. Most of the fat women and all
the dwarfs that I have known came to my acquaintance when in company with
my grandfather. As a young man, it was said, he once ran away from home to
join a circus as an acrobat, having acquired the trick of leaping upon a
running horse. I fancy that his knack of throwing us to his shoulder by a
double somersault was a recollection of his early days. You may imagine
with what awe we looked on him even though he now went on crutches. He was
the epitome of adventure, the very salt of excitement. It was better having
him than a pirate in the house. When the circus had gone and life was drab,
he was our tutor in the art of turning cart-wheels and making hand-stands
against the door.

And once, when we were away from him, he walked all morning about the
garden and in his loneliness he gathered into piles the pebbles that we had
dropped.

I was too young to know my grandfather in his active days when he was
prominent in public matters. His broader abilities are known to others. But
though more than twenty years have passed since his death, I remember his
tone of voice, his walk, his way of handling a crutch, all his tricks of
speech and conduct as though he had just left the room. And I can think of
nothing more beautiful than that a useful man who has faced the world for
seventy years and has done his part, should come back in his old age to the
nursery and be the playfellow of his grandchildren.

But the best holiday was a trip to the farm.

This farm--to which in our slow trot we have been so long a time in
coming--lay for a mile on the upper land, and its grain fields and pastures
looked down into the valley. The buildings, however, were set close to the
r
oad and fixed their interest on such occasional wagons as creaked by. A
Switzer occupied the farm, who owned, in addition to the more immediate
members of his family, a cuckoo clock whose weights hung on long cords
which by Saturday night reached almost to the floor. When I have sat at his
table, I have neglected cheese and the lesser foods, when the hour came
near, in order not to miss the cuckoo's popping out. And in the duller
spaces, when the door was shut, I have fancied it sitting in the dark and
counting the minutes to itself.

The Switzer's specialty was the making of a kind of rubber cheese which one
could learn to like in time. Of the processes of its composition, I can
remember nothing except that when it was in the great press the whey ran
from its sides, but this may be common to all cheeses. I was once given a
cup of this whey to drink and I brightened, for until it was in my mouth,
I thought it was buttermilk. Beyond was the spring-house with cans of milk
set in the cool water and with a trickling sound beneath the boards. From
the spring-house there started those mysterious cow-paths that led down
into the great gorge that cut the farm. Here were places so deep that only
a bit of the sky showed and here the stones were damp. It was a place that
seemed to lie nearer to the confusion when the world was made, and rocks
lay piled as though a first purpose had been broken off. And to follow a
cow-path, regardless of where it led, was, in those days, the essence of
hazard; though all the while from the pastures up above there came the flat
safe tinkling of the bells.

The apple orchard--where Dolly was stung by the bee--was set on a fine
breezy place at the brow of the hill with the valley in full sight. The
trees themselves were old and decayed, but they were gnarled and crotched
for easy climbing. And the apples--in particular a russet--mounted to a
delicacy. On the other side of the valley, a half mile off as a bird would
fly, were the buildings of a convent, and if you waited you might hear
the twil
ight bell. To this day all distant bells come to my ears with a
pleasing softness, as though they had been cast in a quieter world. Stone
arrow-heads were found in a near-by field as often as the farmer turned up
the soil in plowing. And because of this, a long finger of land that put
off to the valley, was called Indian Point. Here, with an arm for pillow,
one might lie for a long hour on a sunny morning and watch the shadows of
clouds move across the lowland. A rooster crows somewhere far off--surely
of all sounds the drowsiest. A horse in a field below lifts up its head and
neighs. The leaves practice a sleepy tune. If one has the fortune to keep
awake, here he may lie and think the thoughts that are born of sun and
wind.

And now, although it is not yet noon, hunger rages in us. The pancakes, the
syrup, the toast and the other incidents of breakfast have disappeared
the way the rabbit vanishes when the magician waves his hand. The horrid
Polyphemus did not so crave his food. And as yet there is no comforting
sniff from the kitchen. Scrubbing and other secular matters engage the
farmer's wife. There is as yet not a faintest gurgle in the kettle.

To divert ourselves, we climb three trees and fall out of one. Is twelve
o'clock never to come? Have Time and the Hour grown stagnant? We eat apples
and throw the cores at the pig to hear him grunt. Is the great round sun
stuck? Have the days of Joshua come again? We walk a rail fence. Is it not
yet noon? Shrewsbury clock itself--reputed by scholars the slowest of all
possible clocks--could not so hold off. I snag myself--but it is nothing
that shows when I sit.

Ah! At last! My grandfather is calling from the house. We run back and
find that the lunch is ready and is laid upon a table with a red oil-cloth
cover. We apply ourselves. Silence....

The journey home started about five o'clock. There was one game we always
played. Each of us, having wisely squinted at the sky, made a reckoning and
guessed where we would be when the sun set. My grandfather might say the
hig
h bridge. I named the Sherman House. But my brother, being precise,
judged it to a fraction of a telegraph pole. Beyond a certain turn--did we
remember?--well, it would be exactly sixteen telegraph poles further on.
What an excitement there was when the sun's lower rim was already below the
horizon! We stood on our knees and looked through the little window at
the back of the phaeton. With what suspicion we regarded my grandfather's
driving! Or if Dolly lagged, did it not raise a thought that she, too, was
in the plot against us? The sun sets. We cry out the victor.

The sky flames with color. Then deadens in the east. The dusk is falling.
The roads grow dark. Where run the roads of night? While there is light,
you can see the course they keep across the country--the dust of horses'
feet--a bridge--a vagrant winding on a hill beyond. All day long they are
busy with the feet of men and women and children shouting. Then twilight
comes, and the roads lead home to supper and the curling smoke above the
roof. But at night where run the roads? It's dark beyond the candle's
flare--where run the roads of night.

My brother and I have become sleepy. We lop over against my grandfather--

We awake with a start. There is a gayly lighted horse-car jingling beside
us. The street lights show us into harbor. We are home at last.

The Man Of Grub Street Comes From His Garret

I have come to live this winter in New York City and by good fortune I
have found rooms on a pleasant park. This park, which is but one block in
extent, is so set off from the thoroughfares that it bears chiefly the
traffic that is proper to the place itself. Grocery carts jog around and
throw out their wares. Laundry wagons are astir. A little fat tailor on an
occasion carries in an armful of newly pressed clothing with suspenders
hanging. Dogs are taken out to walk but are held in leash, lest a taste of
liberty spoil them for an indoor life. The center of the park is laid out
with grass and trees and pebbled paths, and about it is a high iron fence.
Each h
ouse has a key to the enclosure. Such social infection, therefore, as
gets inside the gates is of our own breeding. In the sunny hours nurses and
children air themselves in this grass plot. Here a gayly painted wooden
velocipede is in fashion. At this minute there are several pairs of fat
legs a-straddle this contrivance. It is a velocipede as it was first made,
without pedals. Beau Brummel--for the velocipede dates back to him--may
have walked forth to take the waters at Tunbridge Wells on a vehicle not
far different, but built to his greater stature. There is also a trickle
of drays and wagons across the park--a mere leakage from the streets, as
though the near-by traffic in the pressure had burst its pipes. But only at
morning and night when the city collects or discharges its people, are the
sidewalks filled. Then for a half hour the nozzle of the city plays a full
stream on us.

The park seems to be freer and more natural than the streets outside. A man
goes by gesticulating as though he practiced for a speech. A woman adjusts
her stocking on the coping below the fence with the freedom of a country
road. A street sweeper, patched to his office, tunes his slow work to fit
the quiet surroundings. Boys skate by or cut swirls upon the pavement in
the privilege of a playground.

My work--if anything so pleasant and unforced can carry the name--is
done at a window that overlooks this park. Were it not for several high
buildings in my sight I might fancy that I lived in one of the older
squares of London. There is a look of Thackeray about the place as though
the Osbornes might be my neighbors. A fat man who waddles off his steps
opposite, if he would submit to a change of coat, might be Jos Sedley
starting for his club to eat his chutney. If only there were a crest above
my bell-pull I might even expect Becky Sharp in for tea. Or occasionally I
divert myself with the fancy that I am of a still older day and that I have
walked in from Lichfield--I choose the name at hazard--with a tragedy in my
pocket, to try my fo
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson,
Steve Schulze and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent postpaid, on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CARBOLIC SALVE |
 | |
 | Recommended by Physicians. |
 | |
 | The best Salve in use for all disorders of the Skin, |
 | for Cuts, Burns, Wounds, &c. |
 | |
 | USED IN HOSPITALS. |
 | |
 | SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS. |
 | |
 | PRICE 25 CENTS. |
 | |
 | JOHN F. HENRY, Sole Proprietor, |
 | No. 8 College Place, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer duality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | Sole Agents for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

 * * * * *

Vol. I No. 25

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,

By ORPHEUS C. KERR,

Continued in this Number.

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bound Volume No. 1. |
 | |
 | The first volume of PUNCHINELLO, ending with No. 26, |
 | September 24, 1870, |
 | |
 | Bound in Fine Cloth, |
 | |
 | will be ready for delivery on Oct. 1, 1870. |
 | |
 | PRICE $2.50. |
 | |
 | Sent postpaid to any part of the
 United States on receipt of |
 | price. |
 | |
 | A copy of the paper for one year, from October 1st, No. 27, |
 | and the Bound Volume (the latter prepaid,) will be sent to |
 | any subscriber for $5.50. |
 | |
 | Three copies for one year, and three Bound Volumes, with an |
 | extra copy of Bound Volume, to any person sending us three |
 | subscriptions for $16.50. |
 | |
 | One copy of paper for one year, with a |
 | fine chromo premium, for------ $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, mailed free .10 |
 | |
 | Back numbers can always be supplied, as the paper is |
 | electrotyped. |
 | |
 | Book canvassers will find this volume a |
 | |
 | Very Saleable Book. |
 | |
 | Orders supplied at a very liberal discount. |
 | |
 | All remittances should be made in |
 | |
 | Post Office orders. |
 | |
 | Canvassers wanted for the paper, |
 | |
 | everywhere. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | Punchinello Publishing Co., |
 | |
 | 83 NASSAU ST., N. Y. |
 | |
 | P.O. Box No, 2783. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for August, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 Broadway |
 | |
 | NEW YORK |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M, |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_ |
 | |
 | WA
LTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents._ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAILROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at |
 | WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, July, and August, an attractive |
 | and Saleable Work |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO, |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL, |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS, |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2845] |
 | |
 | NEW YORK |
 | |
 | 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS |
 | |
 | The Best and Cheapest |
 | |
 | 256 Broadway |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats, C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew, |
 | commencing May 31. will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8.45, and |
 | Thirty-fourth st. at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers, (Nyack, and |
 | Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill, Hudson |
 | and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge cars in |
 | connection with the day boats will leave on arrival at |
 | Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare $4.25 |
 | from New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat Seneca |
 | will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that
, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of Our Publishing |
 | Houses, can have the same forwarded by inclosing two |
 | stamps |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, |
 | |
 | [P. O. Box 2783.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR

CHAPTER XVIII

A SUBTLE STRANGER.

The latest transient guest at the Roach House--a hotel kept on the
entomological plan in Bumsteadville--was a gentleman of such lurid
aspect as made every beholder burn to know whom he could possibly be.
His enormous head of curled red hair not only presented a central
parting on top and a very much one-sided parting and puffing-out behind,
but actually covered both his ears; while his ruddy semi-circle of beard
curled inward, instead of out, and greatly surprised, if it did not
positively alarm, the looker-on, by appearing to remain perfectly
motionless, no matter how actively the stranger moved his jaws. This
ball of improbable inflammatory hair and totally independent face rested
in a basin of shirt collar; which, in its turn, was supported by a rusty
black necktie and a very loose suit of gritty alpaca; so that, taking
the gentleman for all in all, such an incredible human being had rarely
been seen outside of literary circles.

"Landlord," said the stranger to the brown linen host of the Roach
House, who was intently gazing at him with the appreciative e
xpression
of one who beholds a comic ghost,--"landlord, after you have finished
looking at my head and involuntarily opening your mouth at some
occasional peculiarity of my whiskers, I should like to have something
to eat. As you tell me that woodcock is not fit to eat this year, and
that broiled chicken is positively prohibited by the Board of Health in
consequence of the sickly season, you may bring me some pork and beans,
and some crackers. Bring plenty of crackers, landlord, for I'm uncommon
fond of crackers. By absorbing the superfluous moisture in the head,
they clear the brain and make it more subtle."

Having been served with the wholesome country fare he had ordered,
together with a glass of the heady native wine called applejack, the
gentleman had but just moved a slice of pork from its bed in the beans,
when, with much interest, he closely inspected the spot of vegetables he
had uncovered, and expressed the belief that there was something alive
in it.

"Landlord," said he, musingly, "there is something amongst these beans
that I should take for a raisin, if it did not move."

Placing upon his nose a pair of vast silver spectacles, which gave him
an aspect of having two attic windows in his countenance, the landlord
bowed his head over the plate until his nose touched the beans, and
thoughtfully scrutinized the living raisin.

"As I thought, sir, it is only a water-bug," he observed, rescuing the
insect upon his thumb-nail. "You need not have been frightened, however,
for they never bite."

Somewhat reassured, the stranger went on eating until his knife
encountered resistance in the secondary layer of beans; when he once
more inspected the dish, with marked agitation.

"Can this be a skewer, down here?" inquired he, prodding at some hard,
springy object with his fork.

The host of the Roach House bore both fork and object to a window, where
the light was less deceptive, and was presently able to announce
confidently that the object was only a hair-pin. Then, observing that
his guest looked curiously at 
a cracker, which, from the gravelly marks
on one side, seemed to have been dug out of the earth, like a potato, he
hastened to obviate all complaint in that line by carefully wiping every
individual cracker with his pocket handkerchief.

"And now, landlord," said the stranger, at last, pulling a couple of
long, unidentified hairs from his mouth as he hurriedly retired from the
meal, "I suppose you are wondering who I am?"

"Well, sir," was the frank answer, "I can't deny that there are points
about you to make a plain man like myself thoughtful. There's that about
your hair, sir, with the middle-parting on top and the side-parting
behind, to give a plain person the impression that your brain must be
slightly turned, and that, by rights, your face ought to be where your
neck is. Neither can I deny, sir, that the curling of your whiskers the
wrong way, and their peculiarity in remaining entirely still while your
mouth is going, are circumstances calculated to excite the liveliest
apprehensions of those who wish you well."

"The peculiarities you notice," returned the gentleman, "may either
exist solely in your own imagination, or they may be the result of my
own ill-health. My name is TRACEY CLEWS, and I desire to spend a few
weeks in the country for physical recuperation. Have you any idea where
a dead-beat,[1] like myself, could find inexpensive lodgings in
Bumsteadville?"

The host hastily remarked, that his own bill for those pork and beans
was fifty cents; and upon being paid, coldly added that a Mrs. SMYTHE,
wife of the sexton of Saint Cow's Ritualistic Church, took hash-eaters
for the summer. As the gentleman preferred a high-church private
boarding-house to an unsectarian first class hotel, all he had to do was
to go out on the road again, and keep inquiring until he found the
place.

Donning his Panama hat, and carrying a stout cane, Mr. CLEWS was quickly
upon the turnpike; and, his course taking him near the pauper
burial-ground, he presently perceived an extremely disagreeable child
throwing stones at pi
geons in a field, and generally hitting the
beholder.

"You young Alderman! what do you mean?" he exclaimed, with marked
feeling, rubbing the place on his knee which had just been struck.

"Then just give me a five-cent stamp to aim at yer, and yer won't ketch
it onc't," replied the boyish trifler. "I couldn't hit what I was to
fire at if it was my own daddy."

"Here are ten cents, then," said the gentleman, wildly dodging the last
shot at a distant pigeon, "and now show me where Mrs. SMYTHE lives.

"All right, old brick-top," assented the merry sprite, with a vivacious
dash of personality. "D'yer see that house as yer skoot past the Church
and round the corner?"

"Yes."

"Well, that's SMYTHE'S, and BUMSTEAD lives there, too--him as is always
tryin' to put a head on me. I'll play my points on him yet, though.
_I'll_ play my points!" And the rather vulgar young chronic absentee
from Sunday-school retired to a proper distance, and from thence began
stoning his benefactor to the latter's perfect safety.

Reaching the boarding-house of Mrs. SMYTHE, as directed, Mr. TRACEY
CLEWS soon learned from the lady that he could have a room next to the
apartment of Mr. BUMSTEAD, to whom he was referred for further
recommendation of the establishment. Though that broken-hearted
gentleman was mourning the loss of a beloved umbrella, accompanied by a
nephew, and having a bone handle, Mrs. SMYTHE was sure he would speak a
good word for her house. Perhaps Mr. CLEWS had heard of his loss?

Mr. CLEWS could not exactly recall that particular case; but had a
confused recollection of having lost several umbrellas himself, at
various times, and had no doubt that the addition of a nephew must make
such a loss still heavier.

Mr. BUMSTEAD being in his room when the introduction took place, and
having Judge SWEENEY for company over a bowl of lemon tea, the new
boarder lifted his hat politely to both dignitaries, and involuntarily
smacked his lips at the mixture they were taking for their coughs.

"Excuse me, gentlemen," said Mr. TRACEY CLEWS
, in a manner almost
stealthy; "but, as I am about to take summer board with the lady of this
house, I beg leave to inquire if she and the man she married are
strictly moral except in having cold dinner on Sunday?"

Mr. BUMSTEAD, who sat very limply in his chair, said that she was a very
good woman, a very good woman, and would spare no pains to secure the
comfort of such a head of hair as he then saw before him.

"This is my dear friend, Judge SWEENEY," continued the Ritualistic
organist, languidly waving a spoon towards that gentleman, "who has a
very good wife in the grave, and knows much more about women and gravy
than I. As for me," exclaimed Mr. BUMSTEAD, suddenly climbing upon the
arm of his chair and staring at Mr. CLEW'S head rather wildly, "my only
bride was of black alpaca, with a brass ferrule, and I can never care
for the sex again." Here Mr. BUMSTEAD, whose eyes had been rolling in an
extraordinary manner, tumbled into his chair again, and then, frowning
intensely, helped himself to lemon tea.

"I am referred to your Honor for further particulars," observed Mr.
TRACEY CLEWS, bowing again to Judge SWEENEY. "Not to wound our friend
further by discussion of the fair sex, may I ask if Bumsteadville
contains many objects of interest for a stranger, like myself?"

"One, at least, sir," answered the Judge. "I think I could show you a
tombstone which you would find very good reading. An epitaph upon my
late better-half. If you are a married man you can not help enjoying
it."

Mr. CLEWS regretted to inform his Honor, that he had never been a
married man, and, therefore, could not presume to fancy what the
literary enjoyment of a widower must be at such a treat.

"A journalist, I presume?" insinuated Judge SWEENEY, more and more
struck by the other's perfect pageant of incomprehensible hair and
beard.

"His Honor flatters me too much."

"Something in the lunatic line, then, perhaps?"

"I have told your Honor that I never was married."

Since last speaking, Mr. BUMSTEAD had been staring at the new boarder's
he
ad and face, with a countenance expressive of mingled consternation
and wrath, and now made a startling rush at him from his chair and
fairly forced half a glass of lemon tea down his throat.

"There, sir!" said the mourning organist, panting with suppressed
excitement. "That will keep you from taking cold until you can be walked
up and down in the open air long enough to get your hair and beard
sober. They have been indulging, sir, until the top of your head has
fallen over backwards, and your whiskers act as though they belonged to
somebody else. The sight confuses me, sir, and in my present state of
mind I can't bear it."

Coughing from the lemon tea, and greatly amazed by his hasty dismissal,
Mr. CLEWS followed Judge SWEENEY from the room and house in precipitate
haste, and, when they were fairly out of doors, remarked, that the
gentleman they had just left had surprised him unprecedentedly, and that
he was very much put out by it.

"Mr. JOHN BUMSTEAD, sir," explained the Judge, "is almost beside himself
at the double loss he has sustained, and I think that the sight of your
cane, there, maddened him with the memory it revived."

"Why," exclaimed the gentleman of the hair, staring in wonder, "you
don't mean to tell me that my cane looks at all like his nephew?"

"It looks a little like the stick of his umbrella, which he lost at the
same time," was the grave answer.

After walking on in thoughtful silence for a while, as though deeply
pondering the striking character of a man whose great nature could thus
at once unite the bereaved uncle with the sincere mourner for the dumb
friend of his rainier days, Mr. TRACEY CLEWS asked whether suspicion yet
pointed to any one?

Yes, he was told, suspicion did point very decidedly at a certain
person; but, as no specific reward had yet been offered in sufficient
amount to justify the exertions of police officials having families to
support; and as no lifeless body had yet been found; and as it was not
exactly certain that the abstraction of an umbrella by unknown parties

would justify the criminal prosecution of a person for having in his
possession an Indian Club:--in view of all these complicated
circumstances, the law did not feel itself authorized to execute any
assassin at present.

"And here we are, sir, at last, near our Ritualistic Church," continued
Judge SWEENEY, "where we stand up for the Rite so much that strangers
sometimes complain of it as fatiguing. Upon that monument yonder, in the
graveyard, you may find the epitaph I have mentioned. What is more, here
comes a rather interesting local character of ours, who cut the
inscription and put up the monument."

Mr. MCLAUGHLIN came shuffling up the road as he spoke, followed in the
distance by the inevitable SMALLEY and a shower of promiscuous stones.

"Here, you boy!" roared Judge SWEENEY, beckoning the amiable child to
him with a bit of small money, "aim at _all_ of us--do you hear?--and
see that you don't hit any windows. And now, MCLAUGHLIN, how do you do?
Here is a gentleman spending the summer with us, who would like to know
you."

Old MORTARITY stared at the hair and beard, thus introduced to him, with
undisguised amazement, and grimly remarked, that if the gentleman would
come to see him any evening, and bring a social bottle with him, he
would not allow the gentleman's head to stand in the way of a further
acquaintance.

"I shall certainly call upon you," assented Mr. CLEWS, "if our young
friend, the stone-thrower, will accept a trifle to show me the way."

Before retiring to his bed that night, the same Mr. TRACEY CLEWS took
off his hair and beard, examined them closely, and then broke into a
strange smile. "No wonder they all looked at me so!" he soliloquized,
"for I did have my locks on the topside backmost, and my whiskers turned
the wrong way. However, for a dead-beat, with all his imperfections on
his head, I've formed a pretty large acquaintance for one day."[2]

(_To be Continued._)

[Footnote 1: "Buffer" is the term used in the English story. Its nearest
native equivalent is, probably, our Dead-Beat;" 
meaning, variously,
according to circumstances, a successful American politician; a wife's
male relative; a watering-place correspondent of a newspaper, a New York
detective policeman; any person who is uncommonly pleasant with people,
while never asking them to take anything with him; a pious boarder; a
French revolutionist.]

[Footnote 2: In both conception and execution, the original of the above
Chapter, in Mr. DICKENS's work, is, perhaps, the least felicitous page
of fiction ever penned by the great novelist; and, as this Adaptation is
in no wise intended as a burlesque, or caricature, of the _style_ at the
original, (but rather as a conscientious imitation of it, so far as
practicable,) the Adapter has not allowed himself that license of humor
which, in the most comically effective treatment of said Chapter, might
bear the appearance of such an intention.]

 * * * * *

PUNCHINELLO CORRESPONDENCE

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

_Patchouli._--What is the substance which enables flies to adhere to the
ceiling?
_Answer._--Ceiling wax.

_Rosalie._--What is the meaning of the term "suspended animation?"
_Answer._--If you remain at any fashionable watering-place after the
close of the season you'll find out.

_Zanesvillian._--Your pronunciation of the French word _bois_ is
incorrect, else you could not have fallen into the blunder of supposing
that the Bois de Boulogne and the Bois de Vincennes are _gamins_ of
Paris.

_Blunderbore._--Your suggestion is ingenious, but the refined sentiment
of cruelty revealed in it is deserving of the severest censure. It is
true that the introduction of German cookery into France by the
Prussians, as you propose, would in a short time decimate the
population, but what a fearful precedent it would be! You can best
realize it by imagining Massachusetts cookery introduced into New York,
and the consequent desolation of her purliens.

_Mrs. Gamp._--No; neither the French nor the Prussians are armed with
air guns. Your mistake arose from puzzling over those distracting war
reports, in whi
ch the word Argonnes figures so conspicuously.

_R.G.W._--What is the origin of the term "Bezonian," which occurs in the
Shaksperean drama?
_Answer._--Some trace it to Ben Zine, an inflammable friend of "ancient
Pistol's." It is far more probable, however, that the word was
originally written "Bazainian," and was merely prophetic of the
well-known epithet now bestowed by Prussian soldiers on the French
troops serving under BAZAINE.

_Earl Russel_--In reply to your question as to whether the thumb nail of
HOGARTH on which he made his traditional sketch of a drunken man, is now
in an American collection, we can only state that, of course, it once
formed a leading object of interest in BARNUM'S Museum. As that building
was destroyed by fire in 1865, however, it is to be presumed that the
HOGARTH nail perished with all the other nails, or was sold with them,
as "junk."

_Invalid._--To regain strength you should take means to increase the
amount of iron in your blood. Bark will do it, which accounts for the
fact that the blood of dogs has a large per centage of iron. Here in New
York, the ordinary way of getting iron in the blood is to have a knife
run into you by the hand of an assassin; but this is not considered
favorable to longevity.

 * * * * *

THE ROMANCE OF A RICH YOUNG MAN.

It happened, once upon a time, that there was a great city, and that
city, being devoid of a sensation, yearned for a great man. Then the
wise men of the city began to look around, when lo! there entered
through the gates of the city a certain peddler from a foreign country,
which is called Yankee Land, and behold! the great man was found. He
dealt in shekels and stocks, and bloomed and flourished, and soon became
like unto a golden calf, and lo! all the wise men fell down and
worshipped him. Now it happened that at first, like all great men, he
was misunderstood, and the people ascribed his success to his partner,
so that everybody said,

 The name is but the guinea's stamp,
 The man's a GOULD for all that;

but the people were soon dis
abused of this idea, and the name of JEAMES
PHYSKE was in everybody's mouth.

Now it came to pass that there was a certain devout man called DEDREW,
who was the Grand Mogul and High Priest of a certain railroad
corporation called the Eareye, because, while it was much in everybody's
ear, no one could see anything of it or its dividends. So JEAMES PHYSKE
went straightway unto DEDREW and said unto him, "Lo! your servant is as
full of wiles as an egg is of meat. Make me then, I pray you, your chief
adviser, and put me in the high places." And DEDREW smiled upon him, as
he is wont to do, and finding that he was a stranger, he took him in,
and knowing that all were fish which came unto his net, he straightway
put him in the high places in Eareye, saying unto himself, "I will take
this lamb and fleece him." So PHYSKE sat high in Eareye. But it came to
pass very soon thereafter, that DEDREW and PHYSKE fell out, some say
about the division of the spoils which they had taken from the enemy,
which, being interpreted, is the people, while others do state that
DEDREW attempted to cut the wool from PHYSKE, but that it stuck so
tightly that PHYSKE caught him. Anyhow, it came to pass, very soon, that
DEDREW was sitting on the outside steps of Eareye, and PHYSKE was
sitting on DEDREW'S throne.

Then PHYSKE ruled Eareye, and he took the stock and he did multiply it
manifold, which is called, by some people, watering. Now it happened
that a certain man named PYKE did build him a costly mansion on the
street which is called Twenty-third, and did therein have foreign
singers and dancers, and players upon the violin, which is called the
fiddle, and upon the bass viol, which is called the big fiddle, and upon
sheets of parchment, which are called the drum, and upon divers other
instruments. And PHYSKE looked upon the mansion, and it seemed good in
his eyes, and he said unto PYKE, "Sell me now your mansion." And PYKE
did sell unto him the mansion, and the foreign singers and dancers, and
the players upon the violin, which is called the
 fiddle, and the players
upon the big fiddle, and the players upon the drums, and the players
upon divers other instruments. And PHYSKE forthwith built himself a
throne there, and did make the mansion the palace of Eareye. And he
would sit upon his throne and view the foreign singers and dancers, and
the players upon divers instruments, and would much applaud, when his
foreign dancers did dance a certain dance, wherein the toe is placed
upon the forehead, and which is called the _cancan_. And all the people
came and worshipped him, him and his foreign singers and dancers, and
players upon divers instruments, and his great diamond. And PHYSKE was
called Prince Eareye.

Then it happened that PHYSKE much desired to command upon the ocean; so
he forthwith bought him a line of steamers, which did run to the foreign
land, which is called Yankee Land, and he placed thereon a goodly number
of his players upon divers instruments, and he did buy him a coat of
many colors, and did stand upon the landing place, which is called the
dock, and the players upon divers instruments did play, "Hail to the
Chief," and all the people did shout, "Hurrah for Admiral PHYSKE, Prince
of Eareye!" for he was of a noble stature, being four hands wider than
his fellows.

Now it came to pass that divers envious persons did institute certain
troublesome actions, which are called suits, against him, and did
endeavor to drive him from the land, but PHYSKE took a field and went
before a barnyard, and did rout these envious persons, and did smite
them on the hip, which, being interpreted, is that he dismissed their
suits, and did smite them on the thigh, which, being interpreted, is,
did make them pay costs. But the field and the barnyard were much
employed.

Then PHYSKE took into his counsel divers persons, dealers in shekels,
and did say unto them, "Let us find us a man who can tell us whether
those in high places will sell gold. And if he say unto us, nay, let us
buy much gold and make many shekels." And the divers persons, dealers in
shekels, w
ere astonished at his shrewdness, and were all of one accord.
Then PHYSKE found him a man who did say unto him nay, and PHYSKE and
the divers other persons did buy much gold. Now it happened that those
in high places did sell gold, and PHYSKE and the divers other persons
were sore afraid, and did fall upon each other's necks and did weep. But
PHYSKE straightway recovered and said unto them, "Lo, if I do murder and
the doctor say that I was insane, am I not forthwith discharged?" and
they said unto him, "It is even so." Then said he unto them, "Let us
send our broker into the board, so that he shall act like an insane man,
and can we be held for an insane man's purchases?" And they were filled
with great rejoicing. And the broker did go into the board, and did act
like an insane man, and PHYSKE and divers other persons did retain their
shekels. And it was Friday when they did these things, and when they had
done them they laughed until they were black in their faces, and the
day--is it not called Black Friday?

Then PHYSKE did bring unto himself other boats and other roads, and
waxed powerful, and became great in the land, and he was much
interviewed by the scribes of a certain paper, "It shines for all,"
which, being interpreted, is the Moon, and his sayings--can they not be
found in the pages of "It shines for all," which, being interpreted, is
the Moon, and are they not preserved there for two centuries?

And then it came to pass that PHYSKE sat himself down and sighed because
there were no more worlds to conquer. But straightway he resolved to
become a Colonel. So certain persons endeavored to make him commander of
the 99th regiment of foot, but a certain old centurion, which is Brains,
ran against him and overcame him. But the soldiers said unto each other,
"Is it not better that we should have body than brains, and had we not
better take unto ourselves the fleshpots?" So they deposed Brains and
chose the Prince of Eareye as their commander. And he straightway
submitted them to twelve temptations. Now it happ
ened, that, as he was
marching at the head of his soldiers in the place wherein these twelve
temptations are kept, a certain servant of one Mammon did serve upon him
a paper, which is called a summons, and did command him to pay for his
butter. At which PHYSKE was much enraged and did wax wroth. And
thereupon he did march and countermarch his soldiers many times. And he
ordered another coat of many colors, and lo! in all Chatham Street there
was not cloth enough to make it, so they brought it from a foreign land.
And it came to pass that he and the centurion, which is Brains--for
should not body and brains work together?--did march the soldiers down
the street which is called Broadway, and did take them to the Branch
which is called Long, and there did divers curious things, all which are
they not found in the paper, "It shines for all," which, being
interpreted, is the Moon?

Now it happened that one HO RACE GREL HE, being a Prussian, did fall
upon PHYSKE and did berate him in a paper, which is called the _Try
Buin_. And PHYSKE became very wroth and did stop the sale of the paper,
which is called the _Try Buin_, upon his roads. And HO RACE GREL HE,
being a Prussian, was sore afraid, and did fall straightway upon his
knees, and did say, "Lo, your servant has sinned! I pray thee forgive
him." And PHYSKE did say, "I forgive thee," which, being interpreted,
is, "All right, old <DW53>, don't let me catch you at it again."

And PHYSKE did divers other strange and curious things, but are they not
written down daily by the scribes of the paper, "It shines for all,"
which, being interpreted, is the Moon, and cannot he who runs, read them
there?

LOT.

 * * * * *

From the Spirit of Lindley Murray.

When is a schoolboy like an event that has happened?
When he has come to parse.

 * * * * *

THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacations.

Vain heading! This paper is not intended to communicate anything about a
vacation. "Would that it were! says Mr. PUNCHINELLO, from the bottom of
his heart.

Last week Mr. P. intended goin
g to the White Mountains.

But he didn't go.

On his way to the Twenty-third Street depot, he met the Count JOANNES.

"Ah ha! my noble friend!" said the latter. ""Whither away"?"

Mr. P. explained whither he was away; and was amazed to see the singular
expression which instantly spread itself over the countenance of his
noble friend.

"To the "White Mountains!"cried the Count," why, my good fellow, what
are you thinking of? Do you not know that this is September?"

"Certainly I do,"said Mr. P." I know that this is the season when Nature
revels in her richest hues, and Aurora gilds the fairest landscape; when
the rays of glorious old Sol are tempered by the soft caresses of the
balmiest zephyrs, and--"

"Oh, certainly! certainly!" cried the Count, "I have no doubt of it; not
the least bit in the world. In fact, I have been in those places myself
when a boy, and I know all about it. But let me tell you, sir, as
_amicus curiae_, (and I assure you that I have often been _amicus
curiae_ before,) that society will not tolerate anything of this kind on
your part, sir. The skies in the country may be bluest at this season,
sir; the air most delicious, the scenery most gorgeous, and
accommodations of all kinds most plenty and excellent, but it will not
do. The conductor of a first class journal belongs in a manner to
society, and society will never forgive him for going into the country
after the season is over. As _amicus curiae_--"

"_Amicus_ your grandmother, sir!" said Mr. P. "What does society know
about the beauties of nature, or the proper time for enjoying them?"

"Society knows enough about it, sir!" cried the Count, drawing his sword
a little way from its scabbard and letting it fall again with: clanging
sound. "And representing society, as I do in my proper person here, sir,
I say that any man who would go into the country in the latter part of
September is a---"

"A what, sir?" said Mr. P., nervously fingering his umbrella.

"Yes, sir, he is, sir!"

"Do you say that, sir?"

"In your teeth, sir!"

"'Tis false, 
sir!"

"What, sir?"

"Just so, sir!"

"To me, sir?"

"To you, sir!"

The Count JOANNES drew his sword.

Mr. P. stood _en garde_.

Just at this moment the Greenwich Street Cordwainers' Target
Association, preceded by one half the whole body of Metropolitan Police,
approached the spot. The Target Society were out on a street parade, and
the policemen marched before them to clear Broadway of all vehicles and
foot-passengers, and to stop short, for the time, the business of a
great city, in order that these twenty spindle-legged and melancholy
little cobblers might have a proper opportunity of showing their utter
ignorance of all rules of marching, and the management of firearms.

Perceiving this vast body of police, with Superintendent JOURDAN at its
head, advancing with measured tread upon them, the Count sheathed his
sword and Mr. P. shut up his deadly weapon.

Slowly and in opposite directions they withdrew from the ground.

It was too late for Mr. P.'s train, and he returned to his home. There,
in the solitude of his private apartments, he came to the conclusion
that it would be useless to oppose the decrees of Society. The idea that
the Count, that worthy leader of the metropolitan _ton_, had put into
his head, was not to be treated contemptuously. He must give up all the
fruity richness of September, the royal glories of October, and the
delicious hazes of the Indian Summer, pack away his fish-hooks and his
pocket-flask, and stay in the city like the rest of the fools.

This conclusion, however, did not prevent Mr. P. from dreaming. He had a
delightful dream that night, in which he found himself sailing on Lake
George; ascending Mount Washington; and participating in the revelry of
a clam-bake on the seagirt shore of Kings and Queens and Suffolk
Counties. As nearly as circumstances will permit, he has endeavored to
give an idea of his dream by means of the following sketch.

Taken as a whole, Mr. P. is not desirous that this dream should come
true, but taken in parts he would have no objections to see it fulfi
lled
as soon as Society will permit.

Which will be, he supposes, about next July.

In the meantime, he advises such of his patrons as have depended
entirely upon his letters for their summer recreation, and who will now
be deprived of this delightful enjoyment, to make every effort to go to
some of our summer resorts and spend a few weeks after the fashionable
season is over,--that is, if they think they can brave the opinion of
society. It may not be so pleasant to go to these places as to read Mr.
P.'s accounts of them, but it is the best that can be done.

The following little tail-piece will give a forcible idea of how
completely Mr. P. has given up, for the season, his field sports and
country pleasures. Copies may be obtained by placing a piece of
tracing-paper over the picture and following the lines with a
lead-pencil.

 * * * * *

THE POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO VI.

 TAFFY was a Welshman,
 TAFFY was a thief,
 TAFFY came to my house and stole a piece of beef.
 I went to TAFFY'S house,
 TAFFY wasn't at home,
 TAFFY came to my house and stole a mutton bone.

It is not often that a poet descends to the discussion of mundane
affairs. His sphere of usefulness, oftentimes usefulness to himself,
only, lies among the roseate clouds of the morn, or the spiritual
essences of the cerulean regions, but, like other human beings, he
cannot live on the zephyr breeze, or on the moonbeams flitting o'er the
rippling stream. Such ethereal food is highly unproductive of adipose
tissue, and the poet needs adipose like any other man. And our poet is
no exception to the rule, for he well knew that good digestible poetry
can't be written on an empty stomach.

It is seldom that a writer is met with, who does not seize every
opportunity to attract attention to his own deeds. He is never so happy
as when, in contemplation, he hears the remarks of his readers tending
to his praise for the noble and heroic deeds he makes himself perform.

But with our poet--and we have been exceptional in our choice--he has
always been backward in 
coming forward, and it was not until he was
touched upon a tender point that he concluded to make himself heard,
when he might depict, in glowing terms, some of the few ills which flesh
is heir to.

The opportune moment arrived.

He had been out since early dawn, gathering the dew from the
sweet-scented flower, or painting in liquid vowels the pleasant calmness
of the cow-pasture, or mayhap echoing with hie pencil's point the
well-noted strains of the Shanghai rooster, when the far-off distant
bell announced to him that he must finish his poetic pabulum, and hurry
home to something more in accordance with the science of modern cookery.

He arrived and found his household in tumult. "Who's been here since
I've been gone?" sang he, in pathetic tones. And he heard in mournful
accents the answer, "TAFFY."

Could anything more melancholy have befallen our poet? He could remember
in childhood's merry days the old candy-woman, with her plentiful store
of brown sweetness long drawn out; and how himself and companions spent
many a pleasant hour teasing their little teeth with the delicate
morsels. Now his childhood's dreams vanished. He remembered that

 "TAFFY was a Welshman."

And then, after a careful scrutiny of the larder, assisted by the
gratuitous services of his ever faithful feline friend, THOMAS, he
found the extent of his loss.

 "TAFFY was a thief,"

he now gave vent to passion, while anguish rent his soul. TAFFY had been
here, and made good his coming, although the good was entirely on
TAFFY'S side, for he walked off again with a piece of beef, and was,
even at this very moment, smacking his chops over its tender fibres.

All his respect for TAFFY now vanished like the misty cloud before the
rays of the morning sun. He buckled on the armor of his strength,
departed for TAFFY'S house, determined to wreak his vengeance thereon,
and scatter TAFFY, limb for limb, throughout his own corn-field. "Woe,
woe to TAFFY," he muttered between his clenched teeth. "I will make
mincemeat of him; I will enclose him in sausage
 skins, and will send him
to that good man, KI YI SAMPSON."

Judge of our poet's chagrin, however, when, on arriving at TAFFY'S
house, he was informed, with mocking smiles.

 "TAFFY wasn't at home."

Here was a fall to his well-formed plans of vengeance.--All dashed to
the ground by one foul scathing blow.

But whither went TAFFY? The poet himself could tell you if you waited,
but we will tell you now. TAFFY liked beef; liked it as no other human
liked it, for he could eat it raw. And when, foraging around the
village, he found a nice piece at the poet's house, his carnivorous
proclivities induced him to steal it, and, with it under his arm,
hurried off to the nearest barn, and there rapidly devoured it. This
only seemed to give him an appetite. He went foraging again, but this
time only picked up a mutton-bone. "The nearer the bone, the sweeter the
meat," cried TAFFY, and with a flourish he hastened to his hiding place,
while the poor poet, disconsolate in his first loss, returned home only
to find a second; and the culprit was still free.

Ah! my kind reader, here was a deep cut to our poet. "Who would care for
mother now?" he sang, for all the meat was gone. Home was no longer the
dearest spot on earth to him, since it was rudely desecrated by the
hands of TAFFY--of DAVID, the Welshman.

Poor poet! Cruel TAFFY!

Let me draw the curtain of popular sympathy over the unhappy household.
The poet has told his story in words which will never die; and he has
proclaimed the infamy of TAFFY to the uttermost corners of the earth.

 * * * * *

Sweeping Reform.

The world moves. There is a chiropodist now travelling in the East who
removes excrescences of the feet simply by sweeping them away with a
corn broom. When last heard of he was at Alexandria, and there is no
corn in Egypt, now.

 * * * * *

OUR EXPLOSIVES.

What between nitroglycerine, kerosene, and ordinary gas, New York city
has, for years.past, been admirably provided with explosives. Now we
have to add gasoline to the interesting catalogue of inflammables. Wh
at
gasoline is, we have not the slightest notion, but, as it knocked
several houses in Maiden Lane into ashes a few days since, it must be
something. Crinoline, dangerous as it is, would have been safer for
Maiden Lane than gasoline, and more appropriate. In the present dearth
of public amusements, these jolly explosives--gasoline, dualine,
nitroglycerine, and the rest of 'em,--come in very well to create a
sensation. They keep the firemen in wind, and, as the firemen keep them
in water, the obligation is reciprocal. Let Gasoline, as well as
Crinoline, have the suffrage, by all means.

 * * * * *

Aggravating.

The war news is becoming dizzier every day. It is now announced that the
Prussian headquarters are at St. Dizier.

 * * * * *

Anna-Tom-ical.

"A young man who lost an arm, some two weeks since, insists upon it that
he still feels pain in the arm and fingers."--(Daily Paper.)

This is strange, certainly, but not more so than the statement of our
young man, TOM, who affirms that, having had his arm around ANNA'S waist
some three weeks ago, he still feels the most bewitching sensations in
that arm. Who can explain these things?

 * * * * *

_Prussicos odi, puer, apparatus_,--as old NAP said to young NAP, when
the Teutonic bullets flew about them at Saarbruck.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: WE DON'T KNOW WHETHER IT IS CORRECT, BUT THIS IS
PUNCHINELLO'S IDEA OF THE CHASSE POT.]

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A FACT FROM LAKE SUPERIOR.

_Shipwrecked Cockney_.--"I SAY, CAPTAIN, ARE THERE ANY BEARS ABOUT HERE?
I'VE COME PREPARED FOR A LITTLE SPORT, YOU KNOW."]

 * * * * *

THE CHARGE OF THE NINTH BRIGADE.

"Col. FISK, Jr., marched his men up to the Continental Bar-room this
evening and gave them a _carte blanche_ order for drinks."--_Special to
morning paper_.

 Half asleep, half asleep,
 Half asleep, onward
 Into the bar-room bright
 Strode the Six Hundred:
 'Forward the Ninth Brigade!
 Charge this to me," he said.
 Into the bar-room, then
 Rushed the Six Hundred.

 Topers to right of them.
 Topers to left of them,
 O
ld sots in front of them,
 Parleyed and wondered;
 Yet into line they fell,
 Boldly they drank, and well
 Into the jaws of each,
 Into the mouth of all,
 Drinks went, Six Hundred.

 Flashed the big diamond there,
 Flashed as its owner square
 Treated his soldiers there,
 Charging a bar-room, while
 All the "beats" wondered.
 Choked with tobacco smoke,
 Straight for the door they broke,
 Pushing and rushing,
 Reeled from the Bourbon stroke,
 Shattered and sundered;
 Thus they went back--they did--
 On the Six Hundred.

 Whiskey to right of them,
 Cocktails to left of them,
 Popping corks after them,
 Volleyed and thundered,
 Yet, 'twere but truth to tell,--
 Many a hero fell.
 Tho' some did stand it well,
 Those that were left of them,
 Left of Six Hundred.

 Oh! what a bill was paid,
 Oh! what a noise they made,
 All Long Branch wondered;
 Oh! what a noise they made,
 They of the Ninth Brigade,
 Jolly Six Hundred!

 * * * * *

A Sun-burst.

The _Sun_ regretfully announces that PUNCHINELLO is about to "give up
the ghost." PUNCHINELLO begs to assure the Sun that he doesn't keep a
ghost; though, at the same time, the mistake was a natural one enough to
emanate from Mr. C. A. (D. B.) DANA, who keeps a REAL ghost in his
closet.

 * * * * *

A. Natural Mistake.

An advertisement from the establishment of Messrs. A. T. STEWART & Co.,
announces, among other things, that they have opened a "MADDER PRINT."

At first sight we supposed that the firm in question had begun
publishing a paper in opposition to the Sun, and that it was to be, if
possible, a madder print than that luminary, for the purpose of cutting
it out. Further reflection convinced us, however, that the "print" in
question was connected with the subject of dry goods, only.

 * * * * *

Very Small Beer.

Newspaper items state that the editor of the Winterset (Iowa,) _Sun_,
is, probably, the smallest editor in the the world." Surely the editor
of the New York Sun must be the one meant.

 * * * * *

"Well I'm Blowed!"

As the _omelette soufflee_ said to the cook
.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: AT THE SARATOGA CONVENTION.

_Horace Greeley, (to Roscoe Conkling.)_ "DON'T BE RASH, NOW REMEMBER
THAT A SOFT ANSWER TURNETH AWAY WRATH."

_Roscoe Conkling_. "LET US HAVE PEACE, BY ALL MEANS: BUT IF THAT FELLOW
REUBE FENTON INTERFERES WITH ME, HE HAD BETTER LOOK OUT THAT I DON'T
SMASH HIS SLATE."]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN TO NAPOLEON.

Napoleon I and Napoleon III--Lager-Beer a Formidable Enemy to Overcome.

SKEENSBORO, NYE ONTO VARMONT,

_Orgust--, 18-Seventy._

FRIEND LEWIS: As I haint got no anser to my last letter which I rote to
your royal magesty a few weeks ago, it has occurred to me, that maybe
you don't feel well about these days, or, just as like as not our
"Cousin German," FRITZ, mite have been mean enuff as to gobble up your
male bag, and steel my letter to put into his outograf album. I now take
my pen in hand to inform you, that Ime as sound as a Saddle Rock oyster,
and hope these few lines may find you enjoyin' the same blessin.
Numerous changes have taken place since your _grand invasion_ of German
sile.

It has certinly been very kind in your Dutch friends to save you a long
jerney to fite them.

Insted of puttin' you to the trouble of goin' away from home for a
little excitement, you can set rite in the heart of your own country,
and enjoy the fun.

A man by the name of NERO, was once said to do some tall fiddlin' when
Rome was burnin'.

While the patriotic fires of your people is clusterin' around you (?) my
advice is, to cote the words of Unkle EDWARD:

 "Hang up your fiddle and your bow,
 Lay down your shovel and the hoe.
 Where the woodbine twineth
 There's a place for Unkle LEW,
 With UGEENY and little LEWIS for to go."

The foregoin' is rather more sarcastikle than troothful.

It laserates my venerable heart-strings, most noble Pea-cracker, to see
how you've been lickt.

You have probly found out by this time, that the mantle of your grate
unkle has passed into the hands of some other family.

The grate BONYPART was called the Gray Eyed man of Destiny, altho' I

don't know what country that is in, as the village of Destiny haint on
any of the war maps.

I should judge, however, onless there is a change in the program, that
when this "cruel war is over," you will wear the belt as the champion
Black-eyed man of Urope.

Your so-called ascendant Star, is probly the identikle loominary which;
Perfesser DAN BRYANT refers so beautifully to, in his pome of "Shoo-fly."

It shone rather scrumpshus, in the dark, but the rays of the Sun has
nockt its twinkle hire'n GILDEROY'S kite.

Yes, Squire BONYPART, your star is the only planet whose eclips has been
visible to the naked eye, all over the world, and can be seen without
usin' smoked glass.

I think, in the beginnin' of the war, when you left UGEENY for Nancy,
that, like your Unkle, you made a bad go.

When the old man stuck to JOESFEEN he was a success.

Empires--Kingdoms--Pottentates and Hottentots, took the first train and
skedaddled, when the General sot his affeckshuns on their territory.

The BOURBONS fled and come over here and settled in Kentucky, and
commenced makin' whiskey, payin' a tax of $2.00 per gallon, and sellin'
the seductive flooid for $1.50 per gallon, gettin' rich at that, which
may surprise you, altho' it doesen't our Eternal Revenoo Offisers, who,
as Mr. ANTONY remarked of H. BEECHER STOW when she stabbed Lord Byron,
"are all _honorable_ men."

Finally BONYPART went back on JOSEFEEN, which made Mrs. B. scatter a few
buckets of tear drops.

Said your Unkle:

"What's the use of blubberin' about it? Cheer up and be a man. I belong,
body, sole and butes, to France, who says my name must be perpetuated.
You, JOSEFEEN, must pick up your duds and look for another
bordin'-house, for you can't run the Tooleries any longer."

He then sent to Chicago and got a ten dollar devorce, and married MARIAR
LOUISER, arter which he become a played-out institootion, employin' his
time walkin' _in solo_ with his hands behind him, gazin' intently on the
toes of his butes, and wonderin' if they was the same ones which had
histed so
 many roolers off of their thrones.

In view of the past, you should have stuck to UGEENY, who, I understand,
is good lookin' and sports a pretty nobby harness.

The charms of Nancy may make your Imperial mouth water, but let an old
statesman, who has served his country for 4 years as Gustise of the
Peece, say to you, "Don't be a fool if you know anything."

Another reason of your unsuccess is that Lager is a hard chap to fite
agin. I tried it once.

A Dutch millingtery company visited Skeensboro a few years since, for a
target shoot, bringin' a car lode of lager-beer and a box of sardeens
for refreshments.

I, bein' at that time Gustise, was on hand to help perserve the peece.

Lager, they told me, wasen't intoxicatin. I histed in a few mugs. I
woulden't just say that I got soggy, but I felt like a hul regiment of
Dutch soljers on general trainin' day.

It suddenly occurred to me that Mrs. GREEN had been puttin' on rather
too many airs lately, and I would go in and quietly remind her that I
was boss of the ranch.

Pickin' up a hoss-whip, I "shouldered arms," and entered the kitchen as
bold as the brave FISK of the bully 9th.

"MARIAR," said I, addressin' Mrs. GREEN, and tippin' over her pan of
dish-water so she coulden't wet my close, "yer 'aven't (hic!) tode the
mark as 'er troo (hic!) wife orter. I can't (hic!) 'ave any more of yer
(hic!) darn foolin'. Will yer (hic!) 'bey yer 'usband like a (hic!) man,
in the futer?"

I raised the hoss-whip to give her a good blow. She caught it on a fly
with both hands, as I lade down on the floor to convince my wife I was
in earnest in what I said.

Well, LEWIS, I remember feelin' as if I was put into a large bag with a
lot of saw logs, and was bein' viteally shoot up. I could also
distinguish my wife, flyin' about as if she had taken a contract for
thrashin' a lot of otes, and haden't but a few minnits to do it in, and
somehow I got it into my head that I was the otes.

I went to sleep in a cloud of hosswhips--hair and panterloon buttons
rapt up in a dilapidated soot of cl
ose.

When I awoke, I looked as if that Dutch millingtery Company had been
usin' me for a target, substitootin' my nose for the bull's eye.

I imejutly come to the conclusion, that to successfully buck agin
Lager-beer, was full as onhealthy as tryin' to get a seat in H. WARD
BEECHER'S church on Sunday mornin's, afore all the Pew-holders had got
in.

When you want an asilum to flee to, come to Skeensboro.

Altho' you have got the ship of State stuck in the mud, I think I can
get you a canal bote to run, where you can earn your $115.00 a month,
provided your wife will do the cookin' for the crew.

This is better than bein' throde onto the cold, cold charities of the
world, especially where a man has got the gout, for anything cold in apt
to bring on the pain and make him pe-uuk.

Hopin' that in the futer, as you grow older, you may lern wisdom by
cultivatin' my acquaintance--and with kind regards to UGEEN and bub
BONYPART, in your native tung I will say:

_Barn-sure, noblesse Pea-cracker._

Ewer'n, one and onseperable,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._

 * * * * *

Bunsby's War Paint.

 Napoleon's chances are not great
 If German facts are true;
 But if he finds not Paris Green
 Hell make the Prussian Blue.

 * * * * *

Remark by a Bandsman.

Once upon a time the French Horn was a famous instrument, but now,
considering the retreating strategy of the French leaders, it appears to
be superseded by the Off I Glide.

 * * * * *

The Music of the Future.

Considering the enormous difficulties which stand in the way of the
performance of Herr WAGNER'S music, it is the music of the Few Sure
enough.

 * * * * *

A Relic of the Past.

The following item is taken from a daily paper:

"The septuagenarian Dejazet sang the 'Marseillaise' at the Passy theatre
lately."

There seems to be a mistake, here. Surely the word Passy is meant for
_passee_.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: PRECOCIOUS.

LITTLE FEMALE AMERICA, TOO, ASSERTS HER RIGHTS AND ESPECIALLY THE RIGHT
TO THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE SIDE-WALK FOR A ROPE-WALK.
"]

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

"Well, you know, Dear Mr. PUNCHINELLOW, this is how CHARLEY DANY and me
cum to hev our fallin' out. We was boys together, was CHARLEY and me,
and went to the same school. CHARLEY were a likely lad there; never
given to spilin' the faces of t'other boys nor splashin' mud on their
clothes. Oh! but hasn't he gone back on them good old times. I wouldn't
hev' believed it, CHARLEY, no I wouldn't.

But, as I was sayin', he were a likely lad; studyin' hard, and often
tellin' me how he would one day come out at the head of the heap,
gradooatin' before the Squire's son, JACK BALDERBACK. Just about this
time I was tuk with the measles, and father died, and SALLIE got
married, and the old woman said to me:

"EPHRAIM, I think your school days is ended." And so they was. I never
went back again, and never saw CHARLEY these thirty-five years gone now,
'till t'other day. I went West in search of a livin', and he tuk onto
business here East. Wons't in a long time I heerd on him; how things
went well with him, and how he got up, up, up, till the ladder wasn't
big enough and he couldn't climb no higher. Folks said he was into the
war; but I didn't believe 'em. CHARLEY was a peace man, I knowed that.
Arterwards, howsumever, it cum out that it was the War Office he was
into, and not the war; and says I to myself, "EPHRAIM," says I, "didn't
I tell you so; and tell them so, and war'nt I right? I calkilate they
won't go back no more on what I says about CHARLEY DANY."

Well, dear Mr. PUNCHINELLOW, I was one day readin' of your paper, and I
comes onto sumthin' about sumbody, which it was as I spell it, "CHARLES
A. DANA," how he was a cuttin' up shines, and how you was a pokin' fun
and hard things at him.

I larfed right out.

"That's smart," says I, "Yes, that's smart; but it ain't onto _my_
CHARLEY. He ain't stuck up nor nothing of that sort. He is as innocent
as gooseberries, is the CHARLEY DANY I know;" and arterwards I thought
no more about it, till I cum on to New York for to look into the cattle
busi
ness, and see how things was shapin for trade this winter.

I put up to the St. Nikkleas. Well, I allers larf when I think of it.
Here was an Irishman tuk my bag, slung it behind him, and says he to
me--"Foller me, if you please, sir." I follered accordin'.

I've clumb some pretty tall hills in my day, Mr. PUNCHINELLOW, but that
'ere gettin' up them stairs jest switches the rag off of all on 'em. I
broke down. Then he tuk me to a heister, and landed us next to the roof.
I was too pegged out to wash or fix, so I flung off my cowhides, jumped
onto the bed and slept clean through till next day. In the mornin' I
rigged up, went down stairs, and asked the clerk if he would be kind
enough to pint out to me where I might see CHARLEY DANY. He sort o'
smiled like, and said I would find him at the _Sun_ office. I paid two
dollars for a kab to take me down, which it did till we stopped afore a
big yaller house, with a big board stuck up agin it havin' these words:

 +--------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "EXTRA SUN!!! |
 | |
 | ELOPEMENT AT MURRAY HILL. |
 | FULL HISTORY OF THE PARTIES. |
 | INTERESTING CHAPTER OF FAMILY SECRETS. |
 | WHO IS SHE AND WHY DID SHE DO IT? |
 | GENERAL GRANT BUYS A SKYE TERRIER! |
 | PARTICULARS OF THE SALE!! |
 | GENEALOGY OF THE DOG!!! |
 | SECRETARY FISH BOBBING FOR SPANISH EELS, |
 | HE IS CAUGHT BY THE GILLS. |
 | THE MINION OF SPANISH TYRANNY IN DISTRESS. |
 | KITCHEN COUNCILS IN FIFTH AVENUE. |
 | NOTES BY OUR KEYHOLE REPORTER. |
 | BABY FOUND IN THE PRIVATE OFFICE OF A |
 | LEADING EDITOR. |
 | WHOSE IS IT AND HOW DID IT COME THERE? |
 | INTERESTING DISCLOSURES OF A PROMINENT |
 | MERCHANT'S LIFE!!! |
 | FOR FULL DETAILS SEE EXTRA SUN, PRICE |
 | TWO CENTS!" |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------+

"Wonder if CHARLEY writ all that 'ere," says I, inwardly, inquirin' of a
boy where Mr. DANY'S particular holdin' out place might be, and givin'
him three cents to show me the way. Drawin' a quick breath, I knocked at
the door. "Come in," says a peskish voice. I c
um in, and there, sure
enough, with nose close down to the desk, a writin' away for dear life,
sat CHARLEY. I knowed him to onc't, for all he was a little oldish, and
a little grayish, and had a bare spot like a turtle's back on the top of
his head. My heart cum' a bustin' up into my throat, and an inward voice
seemed to say:

"Do it now EPHRAIM, do it now, while the feeling is onto you." Jest then
he looked up, and I bust forth: "Oh, CHARLEY! CHARLEY! its a long time
sin' we met, CHARLEY. Don't you know me? Don't you remember little EPH
ECKELS? Oh! CHARLEY, CHARLEY, give us a grip of your knob, old
hunk"--and I slewed over towards him for to shake hands when he suddenly
drawed back, kinder gloomy like, putting down his pen and chewing his
gums sort of swagewise. as he said:

"My name, sir, is the Hon. CHARLES AUGUSTUS DANA, Ex-Assistant Secretary
of War, Ex-Proprietor of the ablest paper in the West, and at present
Chief Editor of the New York _Sun_, price two cents. There is no
individual here, sir, answering to the appellation of "Old Hunk," and,
as I perceive, sir, that there is a most infernal smell of cow yards
about your raiment, and the effluvia arising thence is becoming
insupportable, I would thank you to get out of this apartment double
quick, and I suggest for the sake of others who may be unfortunately
brought into contact with you, that my friend the Hon. WILLIAM MANHATTAN
TWEED has recently established public baths where such creatures as you
may undergo purification before venturing into the presence of
gentlemen."

It was CHARLEY who spoke it; Mr. PUNCHINELLOW, there is no doubt about
that; but the CHARLEY that I knew has been dead sin' that day. Yours in
memory-moram,

EPHRAIM ECKELS.

 * * * * *

Horrors of War.

Much has been said about the Prussian "demonstrations" at Strasbourg. If
half what we hear of Prussian vandalism as displayed at the siege of
Strasbourg is true, "Demonstration" is a very appropriate term for the
thing.

 * * * * *

OLIVE LOGAN.

We have no authentic record of the date
 of this fair syren's birth. It
is popularly supposed, however, that she was contemporaneous with
POCAHONTAS. POKY (as she was playfully called by her playmates at
boarding-school) is now dead. LOGY (another playful appellation of the
gushing miss alluded to) is still Olive.

We do not, however, credit the legend above cited. Also, we do not
credit the equally absurd and unreasonable story that our girlish gusher
is a daughter of a <DW64> preacher named LOGUEN. We look upon this as a
colorless aspersion of our subject's fair fame, and we therefore feel
called upon to politely but furiously hurl it back in the teeth of its
degraded and offensive inventor. Things are come indeed to a pretty pass
when a lady of Miss LOGAN'S position may have her good name blackened
(not to say sooted) by associating it with that of a preacher. Besides,
LOGUEN was himself born in 1800, and is therefore only seventy years
old. These things are not to be borne.

Miss LOGAN is seventeen years of age. This, at least, is reliable. We
have our information from the lips of an aunt of the Honorable HORATIUS
GREELEY, who met Miss LOGAN in Chicago in 1812, and wrung the confession
from the gifted lady herself. Mr. GREELEY'S aunt, we need not say, is
incapable of telling a lie.

At the early age of six weeks our illustrious victim made her first
appearance as a public speaker. This was at Faneuil Hall, Boston. She
was supported on that memorable occasion by a young and fascinating lady
by the name of ANTHONY (SUSAN.) SUSIE prophesied then, it will be
remembered, that the fair oratress would yet live to be President of the
United States and Canadas. Miss LOGAN, with her customary modesty,
declined to view the mysterious future in that puerile light, gracefully
suggesting, amid a brilliant outburst of puns, metaphors and amusing
anecdotes, that SUSIE distorted the facts. Miss ANTHONY, under a
mistaken impression that this referred to her peculiar mode of keeping
accounts, offered, with a wild shriek of despair and disgust, to exhibit
her books to
 an unprejudiced committee of her own sex, with WENDELL
PHILLIPS as chairwoman. (There is manifest inaccuracy in this account,
though, inasmuch as Mr. PHILLIPS was not yet born, at that time; but we
of course give the story as it is related to us by eye-witnesses.) Mr.
JOHN RUSSELL YOUNG, who was in the audience, rose and said that Miss
ANTHONY'S explanation was entirely sufficient, and that she might now
take her seat. The lecturer then proceeded to discuss her subject,
"Girls." She said--

However, this is not a newspaper report, is it?

Soon after this, Louis PHILLIPPE invited Miss LOGAN to visit Paris. He
represented that he should consider it an honor at any time to welcome
the beautiful demoiselle to the palace of the Tuileries. He remarked in
a postscript that his dinner hour was twelve o'clock, noon, sharp, and
that his hired man had instructions to pass Miss LOGAN at any time.
Accordingly, our syren departed hungrily for the capital of the French.
Her career in Paris is well known to every mere ordinary schoolboy:
therefore, wherefore dwell? Madame DE STAEL'S dressmaker called on her.
A committee of strong-minded milliners solicited the honor of her
acquaintance. GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN proposed an alliance with her for the
purpose of hurling imperial jackassery from its tottering throne. Other
honors were conferred on her.

Returning to her native motherland in 1812, she once more resumed her
career as a public speakeristess. How wonderful that career has been,
does not the world know? If not, why not? She has lectured in
14,364,812,719 towns between San Francisco on the one hand and
California on the other. Upwards of fourteen million Young Men's
Christian Associations have crowded to hear her thrilling eloquence, and
lecture committees all over the land have grown fat and saucy on the
enormous profits yielded by her engagements. Country editors, who,
before speculating in tickets of admission, were without shoes to their
feet, have been suddenly converted into haughty despots and bloated
aristocrats by t
heir prodigious gains. And Miss LOGAN herself is said to
be worth $250.

 * * * * *

COMIC ZOOLOGY.

Genna, Corvus.--The Common Crow.

This Ravenous bird abounds in all temperate regions, and is a fowl of
sober aspect, although a Rogue in Grain. Crows, like time-serving
politicians, are often on the Fence, and their proficiency in the art of
Caw-cussing entitles them to rank with the Radical Spoilsmen denounced
by the sardonic DAWES. In time of war they haunt the battle-field with
the pertinacity of newspaper specials, and have a much more certain
method of making themselves acquainted with the Organization of military
Bodies than the gentlemen of the press who Pick the Brains of fugitives
from the field for their information. In time of peace the Crow leads a
comparatively quiet life, and it is no novel thing to see him walking in
the fields devouring with great apparent interest the Yellow-Covered
Cereals. Agriculturists have strong prejudices against the species, and
allege, not without reason, that large Crow Crops indicate diminished
harvests. The most persistent enemy of the Crow, however, is the martin,
which attacks it on the wing with unfaltering Pluck, and compels it to
show the White Feather.

This variety of the genus _corvus_ was well known to the ancients. Those
solemn Bores, the Latin augurs, were in the habit of foretelling the
triumph or downfall of the Roman Eagles by the flight of Crows, and St.
PETER was once convicted of three breaches of veracity by a Crow. The
bird has also been the theme of song--the carnivorous exploits of three
of the species having been repeatedly chanted by popular Minstrels.

A Greek author has described the Crow as a cheese-eater--but that's a
fable. Though fond of a Rare Bit of meat, it does not care a Mite for
Cheese. Nothing in the shape of flesh comes amiss to this rapacious
creature; yet, much as it enjoys the flavor of the human subject, it
relishes the _cheval mort_. During the late war, our government, with
exemplary liberality, purchased thousands of horses 
to feed the Southern
Crows. The consequence was that our Cavalry Charges were tremendous.

The appearance of the Crow is grave and clerical, but it is nevertheless
an Offal bird when engaged on a Tear. It generally goes in flocks, and
the prints of its feet may be seen not only on the face of the Country,
but in many instances on the faces of the inhabitants. Naturalists do
not class it with the edible fowls. There may be men who _can_ eat crow,
but nobody hankers after it. The story of the man who "swallowed three
black crows" lacks confirmation. Looking at the whole tribe from a
Ration-al point of view, however, we have no hesitation in pronouncing
them excellent food--for powder. In this category may be included the
copper- Crows on our Western frontier.

 * * * * *

THE CHURCH MILITANT.

That Brooklyn is a City of Churches has long been known to people of
average intelligence. The following item, however, taken from a daily
paper, is very suggestive of the old saying, "The nearer the church,"
etc.

"JOHN BEATY bit off WM. HARPER'S face in April last, at a church fight
in Brooklyn, and then went to sea. Last night he came back, and was
arrested by officer Fox, who will take him before Justice WALSH to-day.
HARPER is disfigured for life."

The matter-of-fact way in which the expression, "a church fight" is used
by the writer of the above item, seems to indicate that tabernacular
conflicts are rather the rule than the exception in "deeply religious"
Brooklyn. We were not prepared to expect, though, that theological
controversy ever ran further in Brooklyn than to the extent of "putting
a head on" one's antagonist, though now it appears that biting his face
off is more the thing. The statement that "HARPER is disfigured for
life," goes for nothing with us, as that depends altogether on what sort
of looking man he was previous to the removal of his features by means
of a dental apparatus.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE "STERN PARENT.

_Daughter_ "WELL, TO TELL THE TRUTH, I DID NOT THINK MUCH OF THE CLOSE
OF THE S
ERMON."

_Father_. "PROBABLY YOU WERE THINKING MORE OF THE CLOTHES OF THE
CONGREGATION."]

 * * * * *

THE WAR.

It is with feeling of intense satisfaction and self complacency, that
Mr. PUNCHINELLO submits to his readers the following despatches relative
to the Great Railroad War, which have been collected at a fabulous cost,
by a large corps of reporters and correspondents specially detailed for
the purpose.

WAR DECLARED!

ERIE PALACE.--It is rumored that the "unpleasantness" which has for some
time past existed between the rival powers of the Erie and the Central,
will shortly culminate in open hostilities. Col. FISK, assisted by
twelve secretaries, is said to be actively engaged in drawing up a
formal Declaration. Great enthusiasm prevails here. The Erie Galop and
FISK Guard March (price 50 cents, including full length portrait of
Capt. SPENCER,) are played nightly in the Opera House, and are
vociferously re-demanded. Every member of the Ninth has been notified to
hold himself in readiness to turn out at fifteen minutes' notice.

LATER.

"Erie accepts the war which VANDERBILT proffers her." The "Blonde
Usher," accompanied by an extensive retinue of brother ushers, will bear
the gauge of battle to the Tyrant of the Central. He will cast It boldly
at VANDERBILT'S feet. It is announced that he will proceed to his
destination by way of the Eighth Avenue Car Line. The reply of the
Hudson River potentate is looked forward to with great interest.

"CENTRAL" REPORTS.

VANDERBILT received the Declaration of War with seeming calm. On the
departure of the Erie Emissary, however, his fortitude forsook him; he
threw himself on the neck of a baggage porter and wept aloud. At a late
hour this evening a trusted agent left here for the _Tribune_ office. He
is said to have held a long conference with Mr. GREELEY, the particulars
of which have not transpired. It is supposed by many to portend an
alliance, offensive and defensive, between the King of Central and the
Philosopher of Printing-House Square.

FROM ERIE.

Activity is
 the order of the day here. Col. FISK'S $20,000 team went to
the front this morning. They are to be broken into the turmoil of war by
being led gently to and fro, before a Supreme Court injunction. A
Central spy, who was captured during the day, was immediately tried by
court-martial, and sentenced to be suspended from the flag-staff on top
of the building. He was executed at noon, a copy of the _Tribune_ being
tied to his feet, to add force to his fall and curtail his sufferings.
From legal documents found in his possession, the wretched being is
supposed to have been a minion of the law. The Narragansett and Long
Branch boats are being rapidly got ready for active service. Their
armament will consist of Parrott guns of large calibre. FISK says that
VANDERBILT will hear those Parrotts talk.

DESPATCHES FROM THE CENTRAL.

VANDERBILT is preparing for a grand flank movement upon the Erie forces.
He will transport passengers at one cent per head, insure their lives
for the trip, feed them on the way, and present them, on parting, with a
copy of H.G.'s paper. He has been reinforced by the _Tribune_, which
will continue to harass the enemy by attacks in the rear.

ADVICES FROM ERIE.

VICTORY!--By a well executed movement the Narragansett fleet under
command of Admiral Fisk, have succeeded in cutting off the _Tribune's_
connection with Long Branch. A panic prevails in the _Tribune_ office.
HORACE GREELEY threatens, in retaliation, to lecture on farming along
the route of the Erie Railway, to the ruin of the agricultural interest
of the district. A meeting of prominent farmers has been convened to
protest against this outrage, and a strong body of Erie troops have been
sent to prevent H.G.'s advance. It is proposed, in case of attack, to
illuminate the Erie Palace by means of Colonel FISK'S big diamond,
which, it is estimated, would prove more powerful than a dozen calcium
lights. If this should not be dazzling enough, it is suggested that a
glimpse of the Colonel's $5,000 uniform might have the desired effect.
Amongst 
the novel instruments of warfare which the contest has given
birth to, is a new ball projected by the Prince of Erie. It will be
given at Long Branch, and will, no doubt, be very effective.

LATEST FROM LONG BRANCH.

As the Plymouth Rock was nearing the pier here this morning, an elderly
man, whose profane language had attracted the attention of the officers
of the vessel, was arrested by order of COL FISK. It proved to be the
sage of Chappaqua. He was attired in a clean shirt collar, by means of
which he no doubt hoped to avoid recognition. In his travelling bag was
found a tooth-brush and several copies of the _Tribune_. Upon being
tried and convicted of carrying contraband of war, he was sentenced to
give forthwith his reasons why J. C. BANCROFT DAVIS should not be
dismissed from his present office of Assistant Secretary of State.

FROM SARATOGA.

The news of Mr. GREELEY'S capture has affected the Commodore to such an
extent as to stretch him on a bed of sickness. JAY GOULD is reported
marching on Saratoga with a strong force.

LATEST--PEACE!

Central has capitulated! Erie is victorious! To-day a treaty is drawn up
by which everybody is made happy except Mr. GREELEY, who, it is
stipulated, must feign total ignorance of farming whenever he journeys
by the Erie Railway.

 * * * * *

The place to look for them.

_The Sun_, a few days ago, had an editorial article about a reported
theft of a box containing four large boa-constrictors. Might not a
search in the editorial boots disclose the whereabouts of the missing
reptiles?

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | For the accommodation of Strangers have opened |
 | A large and elegant assortment of |
 | |
 | DRESS GOODS, |
 | |
 | SILKS, |
 | |
 | PLAIN AND PLAID POPLINS, |
 | |
 | Empress Cloths, |
 | |
 | SATINS DE CHINE, |
 | |
 | NEW STYLE CLOAKINGS. |
 | |
 | Paris and Domestic Made Suits |
 | Extremely cheap. |
 | |
 | Children's elegantly embroidered |
 | CLOAKS, DRESSES, INFANTS' ROBES. |
 | 
|
 | Paris Novelties in |
 | LADIES' BASQUES, SACQUES, &c. |
 | |
 | A large assortment of |
 | Housekeeping Goods, |
 | CARPETS AND CURTAIN MATERIALS, |
 | EMBROIDERED LACE AND |
 | MUSLIN CURTAINS, |
 | LADIES' UNDERWEAR AND GENERAL |
 | OUTFITTING. |
 | HOSIERY. |
 | |
 | Alexandra's Celebrated Kid Gloves. |
 | |
 | Splendid quality and New Style |
 | Sash Ribbons, Sashes, Neckties, Millinery, and Trimming |
 | Ribbons, &c. |
 | |
 | The above have been received per recent steamers, |
 | and will be offered |
 | At extremely attractive prices. |
 | Strangers visiting our city are respectfully invited |
 | to examine. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Are offering, at about one-half the cost of manufacture, |
 | a large lot of |
 | |
 | Children's and Misses' |
 | Plain, Chine and Plaid Poplin Suits, |
 | |
 | Handsomely Trimmed, |
 | |
 | Suitable for the present Season, $3 each, upwards. |
 | |
 | Sizes to suit the ages of 3 to 12 years. |
 | |
 | Also, the balance of their |
 | |
 | Linen, Lawn, and Barege Suits. |
 | |
 | At exceedingly low prices. |
 | |
 | The above specially deserves the attention of those |
 | visiting out city. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & Co. |
 | |
 | have opened a large assortment of |
 | |
 | PLAIN AND FANCY SILKS, |
 | |
 | Suitable for Autumn, |
 | |
 | From $1 per yard upward. |
 | |
 | Also, a case of |
 | Very Rich Satin Brocatelles, |
 | |
 | The choicest goods manufactured. |
 | |
 | BONNET'S, PONSON'S AND A. T. STEWART & Co.'s |
 | |
 | PLAIN BLACK SILKS, |
 | |
 | The handsomest goods imported. |
 | |
 | TRIMMINGS, SILKS AND SATINS. |
 | |
 | In great variety, |
 | |
 | Cut to suit customers. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS. |
 | |
 +-------------------------------------------
-------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of the kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | " " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00 |
 | Single copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 by 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-5/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens; |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | Pointer and Quail; Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; The Unconscious Sleeper; The Two |
 | Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-3/4. |
 | Spring; Summer: Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. ll x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13 x 18. |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9-1/8 x 4-1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and Six American Landscapes. |
 | (A set.) 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |

 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 | Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter, in |
 | advance; the CHROMOS will be mailed free on receipt of |
 | money. |
 | |
 | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be |
 | given. For special terms address the Company. |
 | |
 | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of |
 | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A |
 | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or |
 | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: DIVORCES READY MADE.

_Lawyer_--"A DIVORCE, MADAM?--CERTAINLY, BY ALL MEANS. BOY, GIVE THE
LADY A DIVORCE."]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "The Printing House of the United States." |
 | |
 | GEO. F. NESBITT & CO., |
 | |
 | General JOB PRINTERS, |
 | BLANK BOOK Manufacturers, |
 | STATIONERS. Wholesale and Retail. |
 | LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers. |
 | COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers, |
 | ENVELOPE Manufacturers, |
 | FINE CUT and COLOR Printers. |
 | |
 | 163, 165, 167, and 169 PEARL ST., |
 | 73, 75, 77, and 79 FINE ST., New York. |
 | |
 | ADVANTAGES.--All at the same premises, and under |
 | immediate supervision of the proprietors. |
 | |
 +--------
<|endoftext|>
The Old Testament of the King James Version of the Bible

The First Book of Moses: Called Genesis

1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

1:2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon
the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the
waters.

1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light
from the darkness.

1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.
And the evening and the morning were the first day.

1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters,
and let it divide the waters from the waters.

1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were
under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament:
and it was so.

1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the
morning were the second day.

1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together
unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

1:10 And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of
the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11 And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding
seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is
in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12 And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after
his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven
to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for
seasons, and for days, and years: 1:15 And let them be for lights in
the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was
so.

1:16 And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day,
and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

1:17 A
nd God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light
upon the earth, 1:18 And to rule over the day and over the night, and
to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the
open firmament of heaven.

1:21 And God created great whales, and every living creature that
moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind,
and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill
the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after
his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his
kind: and it was so.

1:25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle
after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness:
and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl
of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over
every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created
he him; male and female created he them.

1:28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and
multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth.

1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed,
which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which
is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

1:30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of th
e air,
and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is
life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was
very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of
them.

2:2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and
he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

2:3 And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that
in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.

2:4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when
they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the
heavens, 2:5 And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not
caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the
ground.

2:6 But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole
face of the ground.

2:7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living
soul.

2:8 And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he
put the man whom he had formed.

2:9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is
pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the
midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

2:10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence
it was parted, and became into four heads.

2:11 The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the
whole land of Havilah, where there is gold; 2:12 And the gold of that
land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.

2:13 And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that
compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.

2:14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which
goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river i
s Euphrates.

2:15 And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of
Eden to dress it and to keep it.

2:16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the
garden thou mayest freely eat: 2:17 But of the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou
eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

2:18 And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be
alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

2:19 And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the
field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see
what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living
creature, that was the name thereof.

2:20 And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air,
and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an
help meet for him.

2:21 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he
slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead
thereof; 2:22 And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made
he a woman, and brought her unto the man.

2:23 And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my
flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.

2:24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

2:25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not
ashamed.

3:1 Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which
the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said,
Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? 3:2 And the woman said
unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:
3:3 But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden,
God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest
ye die.

3:4 And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: 3:5
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall
be opened, and ye shall be
 as gods, knowing good and evil.

3:6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that
it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one
wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto
her husband with her; and he did eat.

3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they
were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves
aprons.

3:8 And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in
the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the
presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.

3:9 And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art
thou? 3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was
afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

3:11 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten
of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she
gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

3:13 And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast
done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

3:14 And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done
this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the
field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the
days of thy life: 3:15 And I will put enmity between thee and the
woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head,
and thou shalt bruise his heel.

3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and
thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy
desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

3:17 And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice
of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee,
saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake;
in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 3:18 Thorns
also and thistles sh
all it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the
herb of the field; 3:19 In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,
till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for
dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

3:20 And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother
of all living.

3:21 Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of
skins, and clothed them.

3:22 And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to
know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also
of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: 3:23 Therefore the
LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground
from whence he was taken.

3:24 So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden
of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep
the way of the tree of life.

4:1 And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and
said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.

4:2 And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of
sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.

4:3 And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the
fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

4:4 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of
the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his
offering: 4:5 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect.
And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

4:6 And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy
countenance fallen? 4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be
accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto
thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.

4:8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when
they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother,
and slew him.

4:9 And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he
said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper? 4:10 And he said, What
hast thou done? the 
voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from
the ground.

4:11 And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her
mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand; 4:12 When thou
tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her
strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

4:13 And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can
bear.

4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the
earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and
a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one
that findeth me shall slay me.

4:15 And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain,
vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark
upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.

4:16 And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the
land of Nod, on the east of Eden.

4:17 And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he
builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his
son, Enoch.

4:18 And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and
Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.

4:19 And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah,
and the name of the other Zillah.

4:20 And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents,
and of such as have cattle.

4:21 And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such
as handle the harp and organ.

4:22 And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every
artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.

4:23 And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice;
ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to
my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.

4:24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and
sevenfold.

4:25 And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his
name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead
of Abe
l, whom Cain slew.

4:26 And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his
name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.

5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God
created man, in the likeness of God made he him; 5:2 Male and female
created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the
day when they were created.

5:3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his
own likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth: 5:4 And
the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years:
and he begat sons and daughters: 5:5 And all the days that Adam lived
were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.

5:6 And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: 5:7 And
Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and
begat sons and daughters: 5:8 And all the days of Seth were nine
hundred and twelve years: and he died.

5:9 And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: 5:10 And Enos lived
after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons
and daughters: 5:11 And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and
five years: and he died.

5:12 And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: 5:13 And
Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:14 And all the days of Cainan were
nine hundred and ten years: and he died.

5:15 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 5:16
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:17 And all the days of
Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.

5:18 And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat
Enoch: 5:19 And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:20 And all the days of Jared were nine
hundred sixty and two years: and he died.

5:21 And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: 5:22
And Enoch walked with 
God after he begat Methuselah three hundred
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:23 And all the days of Enoch
were three hundred sixty and five years: 5:24 And Enoch walked with
God: and he was not; for God took him.

5:25 And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat
Lamech.

5:26 And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty
and two years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:27 And all the days of
Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.

5:28 And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a
son: 5:29 And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort
us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground
which the LORD hath cursed.

5:30 And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:31 And all the days of Lamech
were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.

5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham,
and Japheth.

6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the
earth, and daughters were born unto them, 6:2 That the sons of God saw
the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of
all which they chose.

6:3 And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for
that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty
years.

6:4 There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that,
when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare
children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of
renown.

6:5 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and
that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil
continually.

6:6 And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it
grieved him at his heart.

6:7 And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the
face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and
the fowls of the air; for it repenteth 
me that I have made them.

6:8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

6:9 These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect
in his generations, and Noah walked with God.

6:10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

6:11 The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled
with violence.

6:12 And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for
all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

6:13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me;
for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I
will destroy them with the earth.

6:14 Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the
ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

6:15 And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length
of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty
cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.

6:16 A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou
finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side
thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.

6:17 And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the
earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under
heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.

6:18 But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come
into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives
with thee.

6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt
thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be
male and female.

6:20 Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of
every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort
shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

6:21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt
gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

6:22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did
he.

7:1 And the LORD said unt
o Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the
ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

7:2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male
and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and
his female.

7:3 Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to
keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.

7:4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth
forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have
made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.

7:5 And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.

7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was
upon the earth.

7:7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives
with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.

7:8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls,
and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, 7:9 There went in two
and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had
commanded Noah.

7:10 And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the
flood were upon the earth.

7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month,
the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains
of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

7:12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

7:13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth,
the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons
with them, into the ark; 7:14 They, and every beast after his kind,
and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that
creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind,
every bird of every sort.

7:15 And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all
flesh, wherein is the breath of life.

7:16 And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as
God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.

7:17 And t
he flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters
increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.

7:18 And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the
earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.

7:19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the
high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.

7:20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains
were covered.

7:21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and
of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth, and every man: 7:22 All in whose nostrils was the
breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.

7:23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face
of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the
fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah
only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.

7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty
days.

8:1 And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the
cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over
the earth, and the waters asswaged; 8:2 The fountains also of the deep
and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was
restrained; 8:3 And the waters returned from off the earth
continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the
waters were abated.

8:4 And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of
the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.

8:5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the
tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the
mountains seen.

8:6 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the
window of the ark which he had made: 8:7 And he sent forth a raven,
which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off
the earth.

8:8 Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were
abated from of
f the face of the ground; 8:9 But the dove found no rest
for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for
the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his
hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

8:10 And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the
dove out of the ark; 8:11 And the dove came in to him in the evening;
and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that
the waters were abated from off the earth.

8:12 And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove;
which returned not again unto him any more.

8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the
first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from
off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,
and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

8:14 And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the
month, was the earth dried.

8:15 And God spake unto Noah, saying, 8:16 Go forth of the ark, thou,
and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.

8:17 Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of
all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing
that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the
earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

8:18 And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons'
wives with him: 8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, and every
fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went
forth out of the ark.

8:20 And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean
beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the
altar.

8:21 And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his
heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for
the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I
again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and har
vest, and cold and
heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be
fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

9:2 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast
of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth
upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are
they delivered.

9:3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the
green herb have I given you all things.

9:4 But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat.

9:5 And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of
every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of
every man's brother will I require the life of man.

9:6 Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in
the image of God made he man.

9:7 And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in
the earth, and multiply therein.

9:8 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 9:9 And
I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after
you; 9:10 And with every living creature that is with you, of the
fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from
all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.

9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all
flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall
there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

9:12 And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make
between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for
perpetual generations: 9:13 I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall
be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.

9:14 And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth,
that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: 9:15 And I will remember my
covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all
flesh; and the waters shall no more become a floo
d to destroy all
flesh.

9:16 And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that
I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living
creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:17 And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which
I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:18 And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and
Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.

9:19 These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth
overspread.

9:20 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:
9:21 And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered
within his tent.

9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father,
and told his two brethren without.

9:23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their
shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their
father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's
nakedness.

9:24 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had
done unto him.

9:25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be
unto his brethren.

9:26 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be
his servant.

9:27 God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of
Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.

9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and
he died.

10:1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and
Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.

10:2 The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and
Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.

10:3 And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

10:4 And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and
Dodanim.

10:5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands;
every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nati
ons.

10:6 And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.

10:7 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah,
and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

10:8 And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.

10:9 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said,
Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.

10:10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and
Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.

10:11 Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the
city Rehoboth, and Calah, 10:12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah:
the same is a great city.

10:13 And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
10:14 And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and
Caphtorim.

10:15 And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth, 10:16 And the
Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, 10:17 And the Hivite,
and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 10:18 And the Arvadite, and the
Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the
Canaanites spread abroad.

10:19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest
to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and
Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.

10:20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their
tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.

10:21 Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the
brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.

10:22 The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud,
and Aram.

10:23 And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.

10:24 And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.

10:25 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for
in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.

10:26 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and
Jerah, 10:27 And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 10:28 And Obal, and
Abimael, and Sheba, 10:29 And Ophi
r, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these
were the sons of Joktan.

10:30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a
mount of the east.

10:31 These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their
tongues, in their lands, after their nations.

10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their
generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided
in the earth after the flood.

11:1 And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.

11:2 And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they
found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.

11:3 And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn
them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for
morter.

11:4 And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose
top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be
scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

11:5 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the
children of men builded.

11:6 And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all
one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be
restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.

11:7 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that
they may not understand one another's speech.

11:8 So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of
all the earth: and they left off to build the city.

11:9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did
there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the
LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

11:10 These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years
old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 11:11 And Shem
lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 11:13
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years,
and begat sons and
 daughters.

11:14 And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 11:15 And Salah
lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:16 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 11:17 And
Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and
begat sons and daughters.

11:18 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 11:19 And Peleg
lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:20 And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 11:21 And
Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat
sons and daughters.

11:22 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 11:23 And Serug
lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 11:25
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:26 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and
Haran.

11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram,
Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.

11:28 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his
nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.

11:29 And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife
was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of
Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.

11:30 But Sarai was barren; she had no child.

11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's
son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they
went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of
Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.

11:32 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah
died in Haran.

12:1 Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country,
and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I
will shew thee: 12:2 And I will make of thee a great nation, and I
will bless thee, and make thy
 name great; and thou shalt be a
blessing: 12:3 And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him
that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be
blessed.

12:4 So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went
with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed
out of Haran.

12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all
their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had
gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan;
and into the land of Canaan they came.

12:6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto
the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.

12:7 And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I
give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who
appeared unto him.

12:8 And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel,
and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east:
and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name
of the LORD.

12:9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.

12:10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into
Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.

12:11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt,
that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a
fair woman to look upon: 12:12 Therefore it shall come to pass, when
the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife:
and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.

12:13 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with
me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.

12:14 And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the
Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.

12:15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before
Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.

12:16 And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had shee
p, and
oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses,
and camels.

12:17 And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues
because of Sarai Abram's wife.

12:18 And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that thou hast
done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife? 12:19
Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to
wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.

12:20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him
away, and his wife, and all that he had.

13:1 And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he
had, and Lot with him, into the south.

13:2 And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.

13:3 And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto
the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and
Hai; 13:4 Unto the place of the altar, which he had make there at the
first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.

13:5 And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and
tents.

13:6 And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell
together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell
together.

13:7 And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and
the herdmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite
dwelled then in the land.

13:8 And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,
between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be
brethren.

13:9 Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee,
from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right;
or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.

13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan,
that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom
and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt,
as thou comest unto Zoar.

13:11 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; 
and Lot journeyed
east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

13:12 Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the
cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.

13:13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD
exceedingly.

13:14 And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from
him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art
northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward: 13:15 For all
the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for
ever.

13:16 And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a
man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be
numbered.

13:17 Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the
breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.

13:18 Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of
Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.

14:1 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar,
Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of
nations; 14:2 That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with
Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of
Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.

14:3 All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is
the salt sea.

14:4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year
they rebelled.

14:5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that
were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the
Zuzims in Ham, and the Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 14:6 And the
Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.

14:7 And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and
smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that
dwelt in Hazezontamar.

14:8 And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah,
and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela
(the same is Zoar;) and 
they joined battle with them in the vale of
Siddim; 14:9 With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king
of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar;
four kings with five.

14:10 And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of
Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled
to the mountain.

14:11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their
victuals, and went their way.

14:12 And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom,
and his goods, and departed.

14:13 And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew;
for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and
brother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.

14:14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he
armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and
eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.

14:15 And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by
night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the
left hand of Damascus.

14:16 And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his
brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.

14:17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from
the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, at
the valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.

14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and
he was the priest of the most high God.

14:19 And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high
God, possessor of heaven and earth: 14:20 And blessed be the most high
God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him
tithes of all.

14:21 And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and
take the goods to thyself.

14:22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand
unto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth,
14:23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatc
het, and
that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say,
I have made Abram rich: 14:24 Save only that which the young men have
eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol,
and Mamre; let them take their portion.

15:1 After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a
vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding
great reward.

15:2 And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go
childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
15:3 And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo,
one born in my house is mine heir.

15:4 And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, This
shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own
bowels shall be thine heir.

15:5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward
heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he
said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

15:6 And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for
righteousness.

15:7 And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur
of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

15:8 And he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit
it? 15:9 And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old,
and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a
turtledove, and a young pigeon.

15:10 And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst,
and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.

15:11 And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them
away.

15:12 And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram;
and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.

15:13 And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be
a stranger in a land that is not their's, and shall serve them; and
they shall afflict them four hundred years; 15:14 And also that
nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they
come
 out with great substance.

15:15 And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried
in a good old age.

15:16 But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for
the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.

15:17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was
dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between
those pieces.

15:18 In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying,
Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the
great river, the river Euphrates: 15:19 The Kenites, and the
Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites, 15:20 And the Hittites, and the
Perizzites, and the Rephaims, 15:21 And the Amorites, and the
Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.

16:1 Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: and she had an
handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.

16:2 And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrained
me from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may
obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.

16:3 And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after
Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her
husband Abram to be his wife.

16:4 And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw
that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.

16:5 And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my
maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was
despised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.

16:6 But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thine hand; do
to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she
fled from her face.

16:7 And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the
wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.

16:8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence camest thou? and whither
wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

16:9 And the angel of the LORD said unto 
her, Return to thy mistress,
and submit thyself under her hands.

16:10 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thy
seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

16:11 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art with
child and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael; because
the LORD hath heard thy affliction.

16:12 And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man,
and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence
of all his brethren.

16:13 And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou
God seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that
seeth me? 16:14 Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold,
it is between Kadesh and Bered.

16:15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son's name,
which Hagar bare, Ishmael.

16:16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare
Ishmael to Abram.

17:1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared
to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me,
and be thou perfect.

17:2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will
multiply thee exceedingly.

17:3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying, 17:4
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a
father of many nations.

17:5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name
shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.

17:6 And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations
of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.

17:7 And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed
after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a
God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.

17:8 And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an
everlasting possession; and I will be their God.

17:9 And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore,
thou, and
 thy seed after thee in their generations.

17:10 This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and
thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.

17:11 And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall
be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.

17:12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you,
every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or
bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.

17:13 He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy
money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your
flesh for an everlasting covenant.

17:14 And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is
not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath
broken my covenant.

17:15 And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not
call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.

17:16 And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I
will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people
shall be of her.

17:17 Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his
heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old?
and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear? 17:18 And Abraham
said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee! 17:19 And God
said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call
his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an
everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.

17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed
him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly;
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.

17:21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall
bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.

17:22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.

17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his
house, and al
l that were bought with his money, every male among the
men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in
the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.

17:24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his
son.

17:27 And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with
money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.

18:1 And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat
in the tent door in the heat of the day; 18:2 And he lift up his eyes
and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he
ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the
ground, 18:3 And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy
sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 18:4 Let a little
water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves
under the tree: 18:5 And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort
ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come
to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.

18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make
ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes
upon the hearth.

18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good,
and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.

18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed,
and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they
did eat.

18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said,
Behold, in the tent.

18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the
time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah
heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.

18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it
ceased to b
e with Sarah after the manner of women.

18:12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed
old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? 18:13 And the LORD
said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a
surety bear a child, which am old? 18:14 Is any thing too hard for
the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to
the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.

18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid.
And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.

18:16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and
Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

18:17 And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I
do; 18:18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty
nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
18:19 For I know him, that he will command his children and his
household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do
justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which
he hath spoken of him.

18:20 And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is
great, and because their sin is very grievous; 18:21 I will go down
now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of
it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

18:22 And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward
Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.

18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the
righteous with the wicked? 18:24 Peradventure there be fifty
righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the
place for the fifty righteous that are therein? 18:25 That be far
from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the
wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far
from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right? 18:26 And
the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city,
then I will spare all the place for their sakes.

18:27 
And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me
to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes: 18:28
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou
destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there
forty and five, I will not destroy it.

18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there
shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's
sake.

18:30 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will
speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I
will not do it, if I find thirty there.

18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the
LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for twenty's sake.

18:32 And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet
but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for ten's sake.

18:33 And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with
Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.

19:1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the
gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bowed
himself with his face toward the ground; 19:2 And he said, Behold now,
my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry
all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on
your ways. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all
night.

19:3 And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him,
and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake
unleavened bread, and they did eat.

19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of
Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people
from every quarter: 19:5 And they called unto Lot, and said unto him,
Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bring them out
unto us, that we may know them.

19:6 And Lot went out at the door unto them, and s
hut the door after
him, 19:7 And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.

19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; let
me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good
in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came they
under the shadow of my roof.

19:9 And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow
came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal
worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man,
even Lot, and came near to break the door.

19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house
to them, and shut to the door.

19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with
blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to
find the door.

19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son in
law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the
city, bring them out of this place: 19:13 For we will destroy this
place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the
LORD; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.

19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which married
his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD
will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons
in law.

19:15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot,
saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here;
lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.

19:16 And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon
the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD
being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him
without the city.

19:17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad,
that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay
thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.

19:18 And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my LORD: 19:19 Behold
 now,
thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy
mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot
escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die: 19:20
Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one:
Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall
live.

19:21 And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this
thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou
hast spoken.

19:22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou
be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.

19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.

19:24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and
fire from the LORD out of heaven; 19:25 And he overthrew those cities,
and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that
which grew upon the ground.

19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a
pillar of salt.

19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he
stood before the LORD: 19:28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah,
and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke
of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.

19:29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain,
that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the
overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.

19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his
two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt
in a cave, he and his two daughters.

19:31 And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, and
there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of
all the earth: 19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we
will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

19:33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and the
firstborn went in, and lay with her father; 
and he perceived not when
she lay down, nor when she arose.

19:34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto
the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him
drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we
may preserve seed of our father.

19:35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the
younger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she lay
down, nor when she arose.

19:36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.

19:37 And the first born bare a son, and called his name Moab: the
same is the father of the Moabites unto this day.

19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name
Benammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this
day.

20:1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and
dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.

20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and
Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.

20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him,
Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken;
for she is a man's wife.

20:4 But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou
slay also a righteous nation? 20:5 Said he not unto me, She is my
sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the
integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.

20:6 And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst
this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from
sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

20:7 Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and
he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her
not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are
thine.

20:8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his
servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were
sore afraid.

20:9 Then Abimelec
h called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou
done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on
me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that
ought not to be done.

20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou
hast done this thing? 20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought,
Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for
my wife's sake.

20:12 And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my
father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.

20:13 And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my
father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou
shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me,
He is my brother.

20:14 And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and
womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his
wife.

20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where
it pleaseth thee.

20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a
thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the
eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was
reproved.

20:17 So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his
wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.

20:18 For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of
Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.

21:1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto
Sarah as he had spoken.

21:2 For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at
the set time of which God had spoken to him.

21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him,
whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as
God had commanded him.

21:5 And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born
unto him.

21:6 And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear
will laugh with me.

21:7 And sh
e said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should
have given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.

21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great
feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.

21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born
unto Abraham, mocking.

21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her
son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even
with Isaac.

21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of
his son.

21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight
because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah
hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy
seed be called.

21:13 And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation,
because he is thy seed.

21:14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a
bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder,
and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in
the wilderness of Beersheba.

21:15 And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child
under one of the shrubs.

21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off,
as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the
child. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.

21:17 And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called
to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar?
fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.

21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will
make him a great nation.

21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she
went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.

21:20 And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the
wilderness, and became an archer.

21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him
a wife out of the land of Egypt.


21:22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the
chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee
in all that thou doest: 21:23 Now therefore swear unto me here by God
that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my
son's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee,
thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.

21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear.

21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which
Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.

21:26 And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing; neither
didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.

21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech;
and both of them made a covenant.

21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.

21:29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs
which thou hast set by themselves? 21:30 And he said, For these seven
ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto
me, that I have digged this well.

21:31 Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they
sware both of them.

21:32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up,
and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the
land of the Philistines.

21:33 And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on
the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.

21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.

22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt
Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.

22:2 And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou
lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for
a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.

22:3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass,
and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave
the wood fo
r the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place
of which God had told him.

22:4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the
place afar off.

22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass;
and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.

22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon
Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they
went both of them together.

22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood:
but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? 22:8 And Abraham said, My
son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they
went both of them together.

22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham
built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his
son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.

22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay
his son.

22:11 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and
said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.

22:12 And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou
any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou
hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me.

22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind
him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took
the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his
son.

22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is
said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.

22:15 And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the
second time, 22:16 And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD,
for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son,
thine only son: 22:17 That in blessing I will bless thee, and in
multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven
, and
as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess
the gate of his enemies; 22:18 And in thy seed shall all the nations
of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.

22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and
went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.

22:20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was told
Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy
brother Nahor; 22:21 Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and
Kemuel the father of Aram, 22:22 And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash,
and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.

22:23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor,
Abraham's brother.

22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah,
and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.

23:1 And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these
were the years of the life of Sarah.

23:2 And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.

23:3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the
sons of Heth, saying, 23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you:
give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my
dead out of my sight.

23:5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:6
Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of
our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his
sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.

23:7 And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the
land, even to the children of Heth.

23:8 And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I
should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to
Ephron the son of Zohar, 23:9 That he may give me the cave of
Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as
much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a
buryingplace amongst you.

23:10 And Ephron dwelt among the chi
ldren of Heth: and Ephron the
Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even
of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, 23:11 Nay, my
lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I
give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee:
bury thy dead.

23:12 And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.

23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the
land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will
give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead
there.

23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:15 My lord,
hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver;
what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

23:16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron
the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth,
four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.

23:17 And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was before
Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees
that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were
made sure 23:18 Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the
children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.

23:19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the
field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan.

23:20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto
Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.

24:1 And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had
blessed Abraham in all things.

24:2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled
over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh: 24:3
And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God
of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the
daughters of the Canaanites, amo
ng whom I dwell: 24:4 But thou shalt
go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son
Isaac.

24:5 And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be
willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again
unto the land from whence thou camest? 24:6 And Abraham said unto
him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.

24:7 The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and
from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware
unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send
his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from
thence.

24:8 And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou
shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.

24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his
master, and sware to him concerning that matter.

24:10 And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and
departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he
arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.

24:11 And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well
of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out
to draw water.

24:12 And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send
me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.

24:13 Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of
the men of the city come out to draw water: 24:14 And let it come to
pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I
pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give
thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed
for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed
kindness unto my master.

24:15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold,
Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of
Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.


24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had
any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her
pitcher, and came up.

24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee,
drink a little water of thy pitcher.

24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her
pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.

24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw
water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.

24:20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran
again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.

24:21 And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the
LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.

24:22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the
man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets
for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold; 24:23 And said, Whose
daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father's
house for us to lodge in? 24:24 And she said unto him, I am the
daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.

24:25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender
enough, and room to lodge in.

24:26 And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.

24:27 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who
hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being
in the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren.

24:28 And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house these
things.

24:29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran
out unto the man, unto the well.

24:30 And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon
his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister,
saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and,
behold, he stood by the camels at the well.

24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore
standest thou
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Suzanne Shell, Dave Morgan and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE RIVET IN GRANDFATHER'S NECK

A Comedy of Limitations

BY

JAMES BRANCH CABELL

"_To this new South, who values her high past in chief, as fit
foundation of that edifice whereon she labors day by day, and with
augmenting strokes_."

1915

TO

PRISCILLA BRADLEY CABELL

 "Nightly I mark and praise, or great or small,
 Such stars as proudly struggle one by one
 To heaven's highest place, as Procyon,
 Antares, Naoes, Tejat and Nibal
 Attain supremacy, and proudly fall,
 Still glorious, and glitter, and are gone
 So very soon;--whilst steadfast and alone
 Polaris gleams, and is not changed at all.

 "Daily I find some gallant dream that ranges
 The heights of heaven; and as others do,
 I serve my dream until my dream estranges
 Its errant bondage, and I note anew
 That nothing dims, nor shakes, nor mars, nor changes,
 Fond faith in you and in my love of you."

CONTENTS

PART ONE - PROPINQUITY

PART TWO - RENASCENCE

PART THREE - TERTIUS

PART FOUR - APPRECIATION

PART FIVE - SOUVENIR

PART SIX - BYWAYS

PART SEVEN - YOKED

PART EIGHT - HARVEST

PART NINE - RELICS

PART TEN - IMPRIMIS

In the middle of the cupboard door was the carved figure of a man....
He had goat's legs, little horns on his head, and a long beard; the
children in the room called him, "Major-General-field-sergeant
-commander-Billy-goat's-legs" ... He was always looking at the
table under the looking-glass where stood a very pretty little
shepherdess made of china.... Close by her side stood a little
chimney-sweep, as black as coal and also made of china.... Near
to them stood another figure.... He was an old Chinaman who could nod
his head, and used to pretend he was the grandfather of the shepherdess,
although he could not prove it. He, however, assumed authority over her,
and therefore when "Major-general-field-sergeant-commander-Billy-goat's
-legs" asked for the little shepherdess to be his wife, he nodded his head
to show that he consented.

Then the little shepherdess cri
ed, and looked at her sweetheart, the
chimney-sweep. "I must entreat you," said she, "to go out with me into
the wide world, for we cannot stay here." ... When the chimney-sweep saw
that she was quite firm, he said, "My way is through the stove up the
chimney." ... So at last they reached the top of the chimney.... The sky
with all its stars was over their heads.... They could see for a very
long distance out into the wide world, and the poor little shepherdess
leaned her head on her chimney-sweep's shoulder and wept. "This is too
much," she said, "the world is too large." ... And so with a great deal
of trouble they climbed down the chimney and peeped out.... There lay
the old Chinaman on the floor ... broken into three pieces.... "This is
terrible," said the shepherdess. "He can be riveted," said the
chimney-sweep.... The family had the Chinaman's back mended and a strong
rivet put through his neck; he looked as good as new, but when
"Major-General-field-sergeant-commander-Billy-goat's-legs" again asked
for the shepherdess to be his wife, the old Chinaman could no longer nod
his head.

And so the little china people remained together and were thankful for
the rivet in grandfather's neck, and continued to love each other until
they were broken to pieces.

PART ONE - PROPINQUITY

 _"A singer, eh?... Well, well! but when he sings
 Take jealous heed lest idiosyncrasies
 Entinge and taint too deep his melodies;
 See that his lute has no discordant strings
 To harrow us; and let his vaporings
 Be all of virtue and its victories,
 And of man's best and noblest qualities,
 And scenery, and flowers, and similar things_.

 "Thus bid our paymasters whose mutterings
 Some few deride, and blithely link their rhymes
 At random; and, as ever, on frail wings
 Of wine-stained paper scribbled with such rhymes
 Men mount to heaven, and loud laughter springs
 From hell's midpit, whose fuel is such rhymes."

PAUL VERVILLE. _Nascitur_.

I

At a very remote period, when editorials were mostly devoted to
discussion as to whether the D
emocratic Convention (shortly to be held
in Chicago) would or would not declare in favor of bi-metallism; when
golf was a novel form of recreation in America, and people disputed how
to pronounce its name, and pedestrians still turned to stare after an
automobile; when, according to the fashion notes, "the godet skirts and
huge sleeves of the present modes" were already doomed to extinction;
when the baseball season had just begun, and some of our people were
discussing the national game, and others the spectacular burning of the
old Pennsylvania Railway depot at Thirty-third and Market Street in
Philadelphia, and yet others the significance of General Fitzhugh Lee's
recent appointment as consul-general to Habana:--at this remote time,
Lichfield talked of nothing except the Pendomer divorce case.

And Colonel Rudolph Musgrave had very narrowly escaped being named as
the co-respondent. This much, at least, all Lichfield knew when George
Pendomer--evincing unsuspected funds of generosity--permitted his wife
to secure a divorce on the euphemistic grounds of "desertion." John
Charteris, acting as Rudolph Musgrave's friend, had patched up this
arrangement; and the colonel and Mrs. Pendomer, so rumor ran, were to be
married very quietly after a decent interval.

Remained only to deliberate whether this sop to the conventions should
be accepted as sufficient.

"At least," as Mrs. Ashmeade sagely observed, "we can combine
vituperation with common-sense, and remember it is not the first time a
Musgrave has figured in an entanglement of the sort. A lecherous race!
proverbial flutterers of petticoats! His surname convicts the man
unheard and almost excuses him. All of us feel that. And, moreover, it
is not as if the idiots had committed any unpardonable sin, for they
have kept out of the newspapers."

Her friend seemed dubious, and hazarded something concerning "the merest
sense of decency."

"In the name of the Prophet, figs! People--I mean the people who count
in Lichfield--are charitable enough to ignore almost any crime
 which is
just a matter of common knowledge. In fact, they are mildly grateful. It
gives them something to talk about. But when detraction is printed in
the morning paper you can't overlook it without incurring the suspicion
of being illiterate and virtueless. That's Lichfield."

"But, Polly--"

"Sophist, don't I know my Lichfield? I know it almost as well as I know
Rudolph Musgrave. And so I prophesy that he will not marry Clarice
Pendomer, because he is inevitably tired of her by this. He will marry
money, just as all the Musgraves do. Moreover, I prophesy that we will
gabble about this mess until we find a newer target for our stone
throwing, and be just as friendly with the participants to their faces
as we ever were. So don't let me hear any idiotic talk about whether or
no _I_ am going to receive her--"

"Well, after all, she was born a Bellingham. We must remember that."

"Wasn't I saying I knew my Lichfield?" Mrs. Ashmeade placidly observed.

 * * * * *

And time, indeed, attested her to be right in every particular.

Yet it must be recorded that at this critical juncture chance rather
remarkably favored Colonel Musgrave and Mrs. Pendomer, by giving
Lichfield something of greater interest to talk about; since now, just
in the nick of occasion, occurred the notorious Scott Musgrave murder.
Scott Musgrave--a fourth cousin once removed of the colonel's, to be
quite accurate--had in the preceding year seduced the daughter of a
village doctor, a negligible "half-strainer" up country at Warren; and
her two brothers, being irritated, picked this particular season to
waylay him in the street, as he reeled homeward one night from the
Commodores' Club, and forthwith to abolish Scott Musgrave after the
primitive methods of their lower station in society.

These details, indeed, were never officially made public, since a
discreet police force "found no clues"; for Fred Musgrave (of King's
Garden), as befitted the dead man's well-to-do brother, had been at no
little pains to insure constabulary shortsightedness, in pr
eference to
having the nature of Scott Musgrave's recreations unsympathetically
aired. Fred Musgrave thereby afforded Lichfield a delectable opportunity
(conversationally and abetted by innumerable "they _do_ say's") to
accredit the murder, turn by turn, to every able-bodied person residing
within stone's throw of its commission. So that few had time, now, to
talk of Rudolph Musgrave and Clarice Pendomer; for it was not in
Lichfieldian human nature to discuss a mere domestic imbroglio when
here, also in the Musgrave family, was a picturesque and gory
assassination to lay tongue to.

So Colonel Musgrave was duly reelected that spring to the librarianship
of the Lichfield Historical Association, and the name of Mrs. George
Pendomer was not stricken from the list of patronesses of the Lichfield
German Club, but was merely altered to "Mrs. Clarice Pendomer."

 * * * * *

At the bottom of his heart Colonel Musgrave was a trifle irritated that
his self-sacrifice should be thus unrewarded by martyrdom. Circumstances
had enabled him to assume, and he had gladly accepted, the blame for
John Charteris's iniquity, rather than let Anne Charteris know the truth
about her husband and Clarice Pendomer. The truth would have killed
Anne, the colonel believed; and besides, the colonel had enjoyed the
performance of a picturesque action.

And having acted as a hero in permitting himself to be pilloried as a
libertine, it was preferable of course not to have incurred ostracism
thereby. His common-sense conceded this; and yet, to Colonel Musgrave,
it could not but be evident that Destiny was hardly rising to the
possibilities of the situation.

II

Concerning Colonel Musgrave one finds the ensuing account in a
publication of the period devoted to biographies of more or less
prominent Americans. It is reproduced unchanged, because these memoirs
were--in the old days--compiled by the person whom they commemorated.
The custom was a worthy one, since the value of an autobiography is
determined by the nature of its superfluities and false
hoods.

"MUSGRAVE, RUDOLPH VARTREY, editor; _b_. Lichfield, Sill., Mar. 14,
1856; _s_. William Sebastian and Martha (Allardyce) M; _g. s_.
Theodorick Q.M., gov. of Sill. 1805-8, judge of the General Ct.,
1808-11, judge Supreme Ct. of Appeals, 1811-50 and pres. Supreme Ct. of
Appeals, 1841-50; grad. King's Coll. and U. of Sill. Corr. sec.
Lichfield Hist. Soc., and editor Sill. Mag. of Biog. since 1890; dir.
Traders Nat. Bank, Sill.; mem. Soc. of the Sons of Col. Govs., pres.
Sill. Soc. of Protestant Martyrs, comdr. Sill. Mil. Order of Lost
Battles, mem. exec. bd. Sill. Hist. Assn. for the Preservation of Ruins.
Democrat, Episcopalian, unmarried. _Author_: Colonial Lichfield, 1892;
Right on the Scaffold, 1893; Secession and the South, 1894; Chart of the
Descendants of Zenophon Perkins, 1894; Recollections of a Gracious Era,
1895; Notes as to the Vartreys of Westphalia, 1896. Has also written
numerous pamphlets on hist., biog. and geneal. subjects. _Address_:
Lichfield, Sill."

For Colonel Musgrave was by birth the lineal head of all the Musgraves
of Matocton, which is in Lichfield, as degrees are counted there,
equivalent to what being born a marquis would mean in England. Handsome
and trim and affable, he defied chronology by looking ten years younger
than he was known to be. For at least a decade he had been invaluable to
Lichfield matrons alike against the entertainment of an "out-of-town
girl," the management of a cotillion and the prevention of unpleasant
pauses among incongruous dinner companies.

In short, he was by all accounts the social triumph of his generation;
and his military title, won by four years of arduous service at
receptions and parades while on the staff of a former Governor of the
State, this seasoned bachelor carried off with plausibility and
distinction.

The story finds him "Librarian and Corresponding Secretary" of the
Lichfield Historical Association, which office he had held for some six
years. The salary was small, and the colonel had inherited little; but
his sister, Miss Agatha Musg
rave, who lived with him, was a notable
housekeeper. He increased his resources in a gentlemanly fashion by
genealogical research, directed mostly toward the rehabilitation of
ambiguous pedigrees; and for the rest, no other man could have fulfilled
more gracefully the main duty of the Librarian, which was to exhibit the
Association's collection of relics to hurried tourists "doing"
Lichfield.

His "Library manner" was modeled upon that which an eighteenth century
portrait would conceivably possess, should witchcraft set the canvas
breathing.

III

Also the story finds Colonel Musgrave in the company of his sister on a
warm April day, whilst these two sat upon the porch of the Musgrave home
in Lichfield, and Colonel Musgrave waited until it should be time to
open the Library for the afternoon. And about them birds twittered
cheerily, and the formal garden flourished as gardens thrive nowhere
except in Lichfield, and overhead the sky was a turkis-blue, save for a
few irrelevant clouds which dappled it here and there like splashes of
whipped cream.

Yet, for all this, the colonel was ill-at-ease; and care was on his
brow, and venom in his speech.

"And one thing," Colonel Musgrave concluded, with decision, "I wish
distinctly understood, and that is, if she insists on having young men
loafing about her--as, of course, she will--she will have to entertain
them in the garden. I won't have them in the house, Agatha. You remember
that Langham girl you had here last Easter?" he added, disconsolately
--"the one who positively littered up the house with young men,
and sang idiotic jingles to them at all hours of the night about
the Bailey family and the correct way to spell chicken? She drove me to
the verge of insanity, and I haven't a doubt that this Patricia person
will be quite as obstreperous. So, please mention it to her,
Agatha--casually, of course--that, in Lichfield, when one is partial to
either vocal exercise or amorous daliance, the proper scene of action is
the garden. I really cannot be annoyed by her."

"But,
 Rudolph," his sister protested, "you forget she is engaged to the
Earl of Pevensey. An engaged girl naturally wouldn't care about meeting
any young men."

"H'm!" said the colonel, drily.

Ensued a pause, during which the colonel lighted yet another cigarette.

Then, "I have frequently observed," he spoke, in absent wise, "that all
young women having that peculiarly vacuous expression about the eyes--I
believe there are misguided persons who describe such eyes as being
'dreamy,'--are invariably possessed of a fickle, unstable and coquettish
temperament. Oh, no! You may depend upon it, Agatha, the fact that she
contemplates purchasing the right to support a peculiarly disreputable
member of the British peerage will not hinder her in the least from
making advances to all the young men in the neighborhood."

Miss Musgrave was somewhat ruffled. She was a homely little woman with
nothing of the ordinary Musgrave comeliness. Candor even compels the
statement that in her pudgy swarthy face there was a droll suggestion
of the pug-dog.

"I am sure," Miss Musgrave remonstrated, with placid dignity, "that you
know nothing whatever about her, and that the reports about the earl
have probably been greatly exaggerated, and that her picture shows her
to be an unusually attractive girl. Though it is true," Miss Musgrave
conceded after reflection, "that there are any number of persons in the
House of Lords that I wouldn't in the least care to have in my own
house, even with the front parlor all in linen as it unfortunately is.
So awkward when you have company! And the Bible does bid us not to put
our trust in princes, and, for my part, I never thought that photographs
could be trusted, either."

"Scorn not the nobly born, Agatha," her brother admonished her, "nor
treat with lofty scorn the well-connected. The very best people are
sometimes respectable. And yet," he pursued, with a slight hiatus of
thought, "I should not describe her as precisely an attractive-looking
girl. She seems to have a lot of hair,--if it is all her own, w
hich it
probably isn't,--and her nose is apparently straight enough, and I
gather she is not absolutely deformed anywhere; but that is all I can
conscientiously say in her favor. She is artificial. Her hair, now! It
has a--well, you would not call it exactly a crinkle or precisely a
wave, but rather somewhere between the two. Yes, I think I should
describe it as a ripple. I fancy it must be rather like the reflection
of a sunset in--a duck-pond, say, with a faint wind ruffling the water.
For I gather that her hair is of some light shade,--induced, I haven't a
doubt, by the liberal use of peroxides. And this ripple, too, Agatha, it
stands to reason, must be the result of coercing nature, for I have
never seen it in any other woman's hair. Moreover," Colonel Musgrave
continued, warming somewhat to his subject, "there is a dimple--on the
right side of her mouth, immediately above it,--which speaks of the most
frivolous tendencies. I dare say it comes and goes when she
talks,--winks at you, so to speak, in a manner that must be simply
idiotic. That foolish little cleft in her chin, too--"

But at this point, his sister interrupted him.

"I hadn't a notion," said she, "that you had even looked at the
photograph. And you seem to have it quite by heart, Rudolph,--and some
people admire dimples, you know, and, at any rate, her mother had red
hair, so Patricia isn't really responsible. I decided that it would be
foolish to use the best mats to-night. We can save them for Sunday
supper, because I am only going to have eggs and a little cold meat, and
not make company of her."

For no apparent reason, Rudolph Musgrave flushed.

"I inspected it--quite casually--last night. Please don't be absurd,
Agatha! If we were threatened with any other direful visitation
--influenza, say, or the seventeen-year locust,--I should
naturally read up on the subject in order to know what to expect. And
since Providence has seen fit to send us a visitor rather than a
visitation--though, personally, I should infinitely prefer the
influenza, as 
interfering in less degree with my comfort,--I have, of
course, neglected no opportunity of finding out what we may reasonably
look forward to. I fear the worst, Agatha. For I repeat, the girl's face
is, to me, absolutely unattractive!"

The colonel spoke with emphasis, and flung away his cigarette, and took
up his hat to go.

And then, "I suppose," said Miss Musgrave, absently, "you will be
falling in love with her, just as you did with Anne Charteris and Aline
Van Orden and all those other minxes. I _would_ like to see you married,
Rudolph, only I couldn't stand your having a wife."

"I! I!" sputtered the colonel. "I think you must be out of your head! I
fall in love with that chit! Good Lord, Agatha, you are positively
idiotic!"

And the colonel turned on his heel, and walked stiffly through the
garden. But, when half-way down the path, he wheeled about and came
back.

"I beg your pardon, Agatha," he said, contritely, "it was not my
intention to be discourteous. But somehow--somehow, dear, I don't quite
see the necessity for my falling in love with anybody, so long as I have
you."

And Miss Musgrave, you may be sure, forgave him promptly; and
afterward--with a bit of pride and an infinity of love in her kind,
homely face,--her eyes followed him out of the garden on his way to open
the Library. And she decided in her heart that she had the dearest and
best and handsomest brother in the universe, and that she must remember
to tell him, accidentally, how becoming his new hat was. And then, at
some unspoken thought, she smiled, wistfully.

"She would be a very lucky girl if he did," said Miss Musgrave, apropos
of nothing in particular; and tossed her grizzly head.

"An earl, indeed!" said Miss Musgrave

IV

And this is how it came about:

Patricia Vartrey (a second cousin once removed of Colonel Rudolph
Musgrave's), as the older inhabitants of Lichfield will volubly attest,
was always a person who did peculiar things. The list of her
eccentricities is far too lengthy here to be enumerated; but she began
it by bein
g born with red hair--Titian reds and auburns were
undiscovered euphemisms in those days--and, in Lichfield, this is not
regarded as precisely a lady-like thing to do; and she ended it, as far
as Lichfield was concerned, by eloping with what Lichfield in its horror
could only describe, with conscious inadequacy, as "a quite unheard-of
person."

Indisputably the man was well-to-do already; and from this nightmarish
topsy-turvidom of Reconstruction the fellow visibly was plucking wealth.
Also young Stapylton was well enough to look at, too, as Lichfield
flurriedly conceded.

But it was equally undeniable that he had made his money through a
series of commercial speculations distinguished both by shiftiness and
daring, and that the man himself had been until the War a wholly
negligible "poor white" person,--an overseer, indeed, for "Wild Will"
Musgrave, Colonel Musgrave's father, who was of course the same
Lieutenant-Colonel William Sebastian Musgrave, C.S.A., that met his
death at Gettysburg.

This upstart married Patricia Vartrey, for all the chatter and
whispering, and carried her away from Lichfield, as yet a little dubious
as to what recognition, if any, should be accorded the existence of the
Stapyltons. And afterward (from a notoriously untruthful North, indeed)
came rumors that he was rapidly becoming wealthy; and of Patricia
Vartrey's death at her daughter's birth; and of the infant's health and
strength and beauty, and of her lavish upbringing,--a Frenchwoman,
Lichfield whispered, with absolutely nothing to do but attend upon the
child.

And then, little by little, a new generation sprang up, and, little by
little, the interest these rumors waked became more lax; and it was
brought about, at last, by the insidious transitions of time, that
Patricia Vartrey was forgotten in Lichfield. Only a few among the older
men remembered her; some of them yet treasured, as these fogies so often
do, a stray fan or an odd glove; and in bycorners of sundry
time-toughened hearts there lurked the memory of a laughing word o
r of a
glance or of some such casual bounty, that Patricia Vartrey had accorded
these hearts' owners when the world was young.

But Agatha Musgrave, likewise, remembered the orphan cousin who had
been reared with her. She had loved Patricia Vartrey; and, in due time,
she wrote to Patricia's daughter,--in stately, antiquated phrases that
astonished the recipient not a little,--and the girl had answered. The
correspondence flourished. And it was not long before Miss Musgrave had
induced her young cousin to visit Lichfield.

Colonel Rudolph Musgrave, be it understood, knew nothing of all this
until the girl was actually on her way. And now, she was to arrive that
afternoon, to domicile herself in his quiet house for two long
weeks--this utter stranger, look you!--and upset his comfort, ask him
silly questions, expect him to talk to her, and at the end of her visit,
possibly, present him with some outlandish gimcrack made of cardboard
and pink ribbons, in which she would expect him to keep his papers. The
Langham girl did that.

 * * * * *

It is honesty's part to give you the man no better than he was.
Lichfield at large had pampered him; many women had loved him; and above
all, Miss Agatha had spoiled him. After fifteen years of being the pivot
about which the economy of a household revolves, after fifteen years of
being the inevitable person whose approval must be secured before any
domestic alteration, however trivial, may be considered, no mortal man
may hope to remain a paragon of unselfishness.

Colonel Musgrave joyed in the society of women. But he classed
them--say, with the croquettes adorned with pink paper frills which were
then invariably served at the suppers of the Lichfield German Club,--as
acceptable enough, upon a conscious holiday, but wholly incongruous with
the slippered ease of home. When you had an inclination for feminine
society, you shaved and changed your clothes and thought up an impromptu
or so against emergency, and went forth to seek it. That was natural;
but to have a petticoated young
 person infesting your house, hourly, was
as preposterous as ice-cream soda at breakfast.

The metaphor set him off at a tangent. He wondered if this Patricia
person could not (tactfully) be induced to take her bath after
breakfast, as Agatha did? after he had his? Why, confound the girl, he
was not responsible for there being only one bathroom in the house! It
was necessary for him to have his bath and be at the Library by nine
o'clock. This interloper must be made to understand as much.

The colonel reached the Library undecided as to whether Miss Stapylton
had better breakfast in her room, or if it would be entirely proper for
her to come to the table in one of those fluffy lace-trimmed garments
such as Agatha affected at the day's beginning?

The question was a nice one. It was not as though servants were willing
to be bothered with carrying trays to people's rooms; he knew what
Agatha had to say upon that subject. It was not as though he were the
chit's first cousin, either. He almost wished himself in the decline of
life, and free to treat the girl paternally.

And so he fretted all that afternoon.

 * * * * *

Then, too, he reflected that it would be very awkward if Agatha should
be unwell while this Patricia person was in the house. Agatha in her
normal state was of course the kindliest and cheeriest gentlewoman in
the universe, but any physical illness appeared to transform her nature
disastrously. She had her "attacks," she "felt badly" very often
nowadays, poor dear; and how was a Patricia person to be expected to
make allowances for the fact that at such times poor Agatha was
unavoidably a little cross and pessimistic?

V

Yet Colonel Musgrave strolled into his garden, later, with a tolerable
affectation of unconcern. Women, after all, he assured himself, were
necessary for the perpetuation of the species; and, resolving for the
future to view these weakly, big-hipped and <DW72>-shouldered makeshifts
of Nature's with larger tolerance, he cocked his hat at a
devil-may-carish angle, and strode up the wa
lk, whistling jauntily and
having, it must be confessed, to the unprejudiced observer very much the
air of a sheep in wolf's clothing.

"At worst," he was reflecting, "I can make love to her. They, as a rule,
take kindlily enough to that; and in the exercise of hospitality a host
must go to all lengths to divert his guests. Failure is not
permitted...."

Then She came to him.

She came to him across the trim, cool lawn, leisurely, yet with a
resilient tread that attested the vigor of her slim young body. She was
all in white, diaphanous, ethereal, quite incredibly incredible; but as
she passed through the long shadows of the garden--fire-new, from the
heart of the sunset, Rudolph Musgrave would have sworn to you,--the lacy
folds and furbelows and semi-transparencies that clothed her were now
tinged with gold, and now, as a hedge or flower-bed screened her from
the horizontal rays, were softened into multitudinous graduations of
grays and mauves and violets.

"Failure is not permitted," he was repeating in his soul....

"You're Cousin Rudolph, aren't you?" she asked. "How perfectly
entrancing! You see until to-day I always thought that if I had been
offered the choice between having cousins or appendicitis I would have
preferred to be operated on."

And Rudolph Musgrave noted, with a delicious tingling somewhere about
his heart, that her hair was really like the reflection of a sunset in
rippling waters,--only many times more beautiful, of course,--and that
her mouth was an inconsiderable trifle, a scrap of sanguine curves, and
that her eyes were purple glimpses of infinity.

Then he observed that his own mouth was giving utterance to divers
irrelevant and foolish sounds, which eventually resolved themselves into
the statement he was glad to see her. And immediately afterward the
banality of this remark brought the hot blood to his face and, for the
rest of the day, stung him and teased him, somewhere in the background
of his mind, like an incessant insect.

Glad, indeed!

Before he had finished shaking hands with
 Patricia Stapylton, it was
all over with the poor man.

"Er--h'm!" quoth he.

"Only," Miss Stapylton was meditating, with puckered brow, "it would be
unseemly for me to call you Rudolph--"

"You impertinent minx!" cried he, in his soul; "I should rather think it
would be!"

"--and Cousin Rudolph sounds exactly like a dried-up little man with
eyeglasses and crows' feet and a gentle nature. I rather thought you
were going to be like that, and I regard it as extremely hospitable of
you not to be. You are more like--like what now?" Miss Stapylton put her
head to one side and considered the contents of her vocabulary,--"you
are like a viking. I shall call you Olaf," she announced, when she had
reached a decision.

This, look you, to the most dignified man in Lichfield,--a person who
had never borne a nickname in his life. You must picture for yourself
how the colonel stood before her, big, sturdy and blond, and glared down
at her, and assured himself that he was very indignant; like Timanthes,
the colonel's biographer prefers to draw a veil before the countenance
to which art is unable to do justice.

Then, "I have no admiration for the Northmen," Rudolph Musgrave
declared, stiffly. "They were a rude and barbarous nation, proverbially
addicted to piracy and intemperance."

"My goodness gracious!" Miss Stapylton observed,--and now, for the
first time, he saw the teeth that were like grains of rice upon a pink
rose petal. Also, he saw dimples. "And does one mean all that by a
viking?"

"The vikings," he informed her--and his Library manner had settled upon
him now to the very tips of his fingers--"were pirates. The word is of
Icelandic origin, from _vik_, the name applied to the small inlets along
the coast in which they concealed their galleys. I may mention that Olaf
was not a viking, but a Norwegian king, being the first Christian
monarch to reign in Norway."

"Dear me!" said Miss Stapylton; "how interesting!"

Then she yawned with deliberate cruelty.

"However," she concluded, "I shall call you Olaf, just the same.
"

"Er--h'm!" said the colonel.

 * * * * *

And this stuttering boor (he reflected) was Colonel Rudolph Musgrave,
confessedly the social triumph of his generation! This imbecile, without
a syllable to say for himself, without a solitary adroit word within
tongue's reach, wherewith to annihilate the hussy, was a Musgrave of
Matocton!

 * * * * *

And she did. To her he was "Olaf" from that day forth.

Rudolph Musgrave called her, "You." He was nettled, of course, by her
forwardness--"Olaf," indeed!--yet he found it, somehow, difficult to
bear this fact in mind continuously.

For while it is true our heroes and heroines in fiction no longer fall
in love at first sight, Nature, you must remember, is too busily
employed with other matters to have much time to profit by current
literature. Then, too, she is not especially anxious to be realistic.
She prefers to jog along in the old rut, contentedly turning out
chromolithographic sunrises such as they give away at the tea stores,
contentedly staging the most violent and improbable melodramas;
and--sturdy old Philistine that she is--she even now permits her
children to fall in love in the most primitive fashion.

She is not particularly interested in subtleties and soul analyses; she
merely chuckles rather complacently when a pair of eyes are drawn,
somehow, to another pair of eyes, and an indescribable something is
altered somewhere in some untellable fashion, and the world, suddenly,
becomes the most delightful place of residence in all the universe.
Indeed, it is her favorite miracle, this. For at work of this sort the
old Philistine knows that she is an adept; and she has rejoiced in the
skill of her hands, with a sober workmanly joy, since Cain first went
a-wooing in the Land of Nod.

So Colonel Rudolph Musgrave, without understanding what had happened to
him, on a sudden was strangely content with life.

It was at supper--dinner, in Lichfield, when not a formal
entertainment, is eaten at two in the afternoon--that he fell
a-speculating as to whether Her eyes, aft
er all, could be fitly
described as purple.

Wasn't there a grayer luminosity about them than he had at first
suspected?--wasn't the cool glow of them, in a word, rather that of
sunlight falling upon a wet slate roof?

It was a delicate question, an affair of nuances, of almost
imperceptible graduations; and in debating a matter of such nicety, a
man must necessarily lay aside all petty irritation, such as being
nettled by an irrational nickname, and approach the question with
unbiased mind.

He did. And when, at last, he had come warily to the verge of decision,
Miss Musgrave in all innocence announced that they would excuse him if
he wished to get back to his work.

He discovered that, somehow, the three had finished supper; and,
somehow, he presently discovered himself in his study, where eight
o'clock had found him every evening for the last ten years, when he was
not about his social diversions. An old custom, you will observe, is not
lightly broken.

VI

Subsequently: "I have never approved of these international marriages,"
said Colonel Musgrave, with heat. "It stands to reason, she is simply
marrying the fellow for his title. _(The will of Jeremiah Brown, dated
29 November, 1690, recorded 2 February, 1690-1, mentions his wife Eliza
Brown and appoints her his executrix.)_ She can't possibly care for him.
_(This, then, was the second wife of Edward Osborne of Henrico, who,
marrying him 15 June, 1694, died before January, 1696-7.)_ But they are
all flibbertigibbets, every one of them. _(She had apparently no
children by either marriage--)_ And I dare say she is no better than the
rest."

Came a tap on the door. Followed a vision of soft white folds and
furbelows and semi-transparencies and purple eyes and a pouting mouth.

"I am become like a pelican in the wilderness, Olaf," the owner of these
vanities complained. "Are you very busy? Cousin Agatha is about her
housekeeping, and I have read the afternoon paper all through,--even the
list of undelivered letters and the woman's page,--and I just want to
see th
e Gilbert Stuart picture," she concluded,--exercising, one is
afraid, a certain economy in regard to the truth.

This was a little too much. If a man's working-hours are not to be
respected--if his privacy is to be thus invaded on the flimsiest of
pretexts,--why, then, one may very reasonably look for chaos to come
again. This, Rudolph Musgrave decided, was a case demanding firm and
instant action. Here was a young person who needed taking down a peg or
two, and that at once.

But he made the mistake of looking at her first. And after that, he lied
glibly. "Good Lord, no! I am not in the least busy now. In fact, I was
just about to look you two up."

"I was rather afraid of disturbing you." She hesitated; and a lucent
mischief woke in her eyes. "You are so patriarchal, Olaf," she lamented.
"I felt like a lion venturing into a den of Daniels. But if you cross
your heart you aren't really busy--why, then, you can show me the
Stuart, Olaf."

It is widely conceded that Gilbert Stuart never in his after work
surpassed the painting which hung then in Rudolph Musgrave's study,--the
portrait of the young Gerald Musgrave, afterward the friend of Jefferson
and Henry, and, still later, the author of divers bulky tomes,
pertaining for the most part to ethnology. The boy smiles at you from
the canvas, smiles ambiguously,--smiles with a woman's mouth, set above
a resolute chin, however,--and with a sort of humorous sadness in his
eyes. These latter are of a dark shade of blue--purple, if you
will,--and his hair is tinged with red.

"Why, he took after me!" said Miss Stapylton. "How thoughtful of him,
Olaf!"

And Rudolph Musgrave saw the undeniable resemblance. It gave him a queer
sort of shock, too, as he comprehended, for the first time, that the
faint blue vein on that lifted arm held Musgrave blood,--the same blood
which at this thought quickened. For any person guided by appearances,
Rudolph Musgrave considered, would have surmised that the vein in
question contained celestial ichor or some yet diviner fluid.

"It is true,
" he conceded, "that there is a certain likeness."

"And he is a very beautiful boy," said Miss Stapylton, demurely. "Thank
you, Olaf; I begin to think you are a dangerous flatterer. But he is
only a boy, Olaf! And I had always thought of Gerald Musgrave as a
learned person with a fringe of whiskers all around his face--like a
centerpiece, you know."

The colonel smiled. "This portrait was painted early in life. Our
kinsman was at that time, I believe, a person of rather frivolous
tendencies. Yet he was not quite thirty when he first established his
reputation by his monograph upon _The Evolution of Marriage_. And
afterwards, just prior to his first meeting with Goethe, you will
remember--"

"Oh, yes!" Miss Stapylton assented, hastily; "I remember perfectly. I
know all about him, thank you. And it was that beautiful boy, Olaf, that
young-eyed cherub, who developed into a musty old man who wrote musty
old books, and lived a musty, dusty life all by himself, and never
married or had any fun at all! How _horrid_, Olaf!" she cried, with a
queer shrug of distaste.

"I fail," said Colonel Musgrave, "to perceive anything--ah--horrid in a
life devoted to the study of anthropology. His reputation when he died
was international."

"But he never had any fun, you jay-bird! And, oh, Olaf! Olaf! that boy
could have had so much fun! The world held so much for him! Why, Fortune
is only a woman, you know, and what woman could have refused him
anything if he had smiled at her like that when he asked for it?"

Miss Stapylton gazed up at the portrait for a long time now, her hands
clasped under her chin. Her face was gently reproachful.

"Oh, boy dear, boy dear!" she said, with a forlorn little quaver in her
voice, "how _could_ you be _so_ foolish? _Didn't_ you know there was
something better in the world than grubbing after musty old tribes and
customs and folk-songs? Oh, precious child, how could you?"

Gerald Musgrave smiled back at her, ambiguously; and Rudolph Musgrave
laughed. "I perceive," said he, "you are a follower of Epic
urus. For my
part, I must have fetched my ideals from the tub of the Stoic. I can
conceive of no nobler life than one devoted to furthering the cause of
science."

She looked up at him, with a wan smile. "A barren life!" she said: "ah,
yes, his was a wasted life! His books are all out-of-date now, and
nobody reads them, and it is just as if he had never been. A barren
life, Olaf! And that beautiful boy might have had so much fun--Life is
queer, isn't it, Olaf?"

Again he laughed, "The criticism," he suggested, "is not altogether
original. And Science, no less than War, must have her unsung heroes.
You must remember," he continued, more seriously, "that any great work
must have as its foundation the achievements of unknown men. I fancy
that Cheops did not lay every brick in his pyramid with his own hand;
and I dare say Nebuchadnezzar employed a few helpers when he was laying
out his hanging gardens. But time cannot chronicle these lesser men.
Their sole reward must be the knowledge that they have aided somewhat in
the unending work of the world."

Her face had altered into a pink and white penitence which was flavored
with awe.

"I--I forgot," she murmured, contritely; "I--forgot you were--like
him--about your genealogies, you know. Oh, Olaf, I'm very silly! Of
course, it is tremendously fine and--and nice, I dare say, if you like
it,--to devote your life to learning, as you and he have done. I forgot,
Olaf. Still, I am sorry, somehow, for that beautiful boy," she ended,
with a disconsolate glance at the portrait.

VII

Long after Miss Stapylton had left him, the colonel sat alone in his
study, idle now, and musing vaguely. There were no more addenda
concerning the descendants of Captain Thomas Osborne that night.

At last, the colonel rose and threw open a window, and stood looking
into the moonlit garden. The world bathed in a mist of blue and silver.
There was a breeze that brought him sweet, warm odors from the garden,
together with a blurred shrilling of crickets and the conspiratorial
conference of young lea
ves.

"Of course, it is tremendously fine and--and nice, if you like it," he
said, with a faint chuckle. "I wonder, now, if I do like it?"

He was strangely moved. He seemed, somehow, to survey Rudolph Musgrave
and all his doings with complete and unconcerned aloofness. The man's
life, seen in its true proportions, dwindled into the merest flicker of
a match; he had such a little while to live, this Rudolph Musgrave! And
he spent the serious hours of this brief time writing notes and charts
and pamphlets that perhaps some hundred men in all the universe might
care to read--pamphlets no better and no more accurate than hundreds of
other men were writing at that very moment.

No, the capacity for originative and enduring work was not in him; and
this incessant compilation of dreary footnotes, this incessant rummaging
among the bones of the dead--did it, after all, mean more to this
Rudolph Musgrave than one full, vivid hour of life in that militant
world yonder, where men fought for other and more tangible prizes than
the mention of one's name in a genealogical journal?

He could not have told you. In his heart, he knew that a thorough digest
of the Wills and Orders of the Orphans' Court of any county must always
rank as a useful and creditable performance; but, from without, the
sounds and odors of Spring were calling to him, luring him, wringing his
very heart, bidding him come forth into the open and crack a jest or two
before he died, and stare at the girls a little before the match had
flickered out.

 * * * * *

At this time he heard a moaning noise. The colonel gave a shrug, sighed,
and ascended to his sister's bedroom. He knew that Agatha must be ill;
and that there is no more efficient quietus to wildish meditations than
the heating of hot-water bottles and the administration of hypnotics he
had long ago discovered.

PART TWO - RENASCENCE

 "As one imprisoned that hath lain alone
 And dreamed of sunlight where no vagrant gleam
 Of sunlight pierces, being freed, must deem
 This too but dreaming, and must dr
ead the sun
 Whose glory dazzles,--even as such-an-one
 Am I whose longing was but now supreme
 For this high hour, and, now it strikes, esteem
 I do but dream long dreamed-of goals are won.

 "Phyllis, I am not worthy of thy love.
 I pray thee let no kindly word be said
 Of me at all, for in the train thereof,
 Whenas yet-parted lips, sigh-visited,
 End speech and wait, mine when I will to move,
 Such joy awakens that I grow afraid."
THOMAS ROWLAND. _Triumphs of Phyllis_.

I

They passed with incredible celerity, those next ten days--those
strange, delicious, topsy-turvy days. To Rudolph Musgrave it seemed
afterward that he had dreamed them away in some vague Lotus Land--in a
delectable country where, he remembered, there were always purple eyes
that mocked you, and red lips that coaxed you now, and now cast gibes at
you.

You felt, for the most part of your stay in this country, flushed and
hot and uncomfortable and unbelievably awkward, and you were mercilessly
bedeviled there; but not for all the accumulated wealth of Samarkand and
Ind and Ophir would you have had it otherwise. Ah, no, not otherwise in
the least trifle. For now uplifted to a rosy zone of acquiescence, you
partook incuriously at table of nectar and ambrosia, and noted abroad,
without any surprise, that you trod upon a more verdant grass than
usual, and that someone had polished up the sun a bit; and, in fine, you
snatched a fearful joy from the performance of the most trivial
functions of life.

Yet always he remembered that it could not last; always he remembered
that in the autumn Patricia was to marry Lord Pevensey. She sometimes
gave him letters to mail which were addressed to that nobleman. He
wondered savagely what was in them; he posted them with a vicious shove;
and, for the time, they caused him acute twinges of misery. But not for
long; no, for, in sober earnest, if some fantastic sequence of events
had made his one chance of winning Patricia Stapylton dependent on his
spending a miserable half-hour in her company, Rudolph Musgrave c
ould
not have done it.

As for Miss Stapylton, she appeared to delight in the cloistered,
easy-going life of Lichfield. The quaint and beautiful old town fell
short in nothing of her expectations, in spite of the fact that she had
previously read John Charteris's tales of Lichfield,--"those effusions
which" (if the _Lichfield Courier-Herald_ is to be trusted) "have
builded, by the strength and witchery of record and rhyme, romance and
poem, a myriad-windowed temple in Lichfield's honor--exquisite,
luminous, and enduring--for all the world to see."

Miss Stapylton appeared to delight in the cloistered easy-going life of
Lichfield,--that town which was once, as the outside world has
half-forgotten now, the center of America's wealth, politics and
culture, the town to which Europeans compiling "impressions" of America
devoted one of their longest chapters in the heyday of Elijah Pogram and
Jefferson Brick. But the War between the States has changed all that,
and Lichfield endures to-day only as a pleasant backwater.

Very pleasant, too, it was in the days of Patricia's advent. There were
strikingly few young men about, to be sure; most of them on reaching
maturity had settled in more bustling regions. But many maidens remained
whom memory delights to catalogue,--tall, brilliant Lizzie Allardyce,
the lovely and cattish Marian Winwood, to whom Felix Kennaston wrote
those wonderful love-letters which she published when he married
Kathleen Saumarez, the rich Baugh heiresses from Georgia, the Pride
twins, and Mattie Ferneyhaugh, whom even rival beauties loved, they say,
and other damsels by the score,--all in due time to be wooed and won,
and then to pass out of the old town's life.

Among the men of Rudolph Musgrave's generation--those gallant oldsters
who were born and bred, and meant to die, in Lichfield,--Patricia did
not lack for admirers. Tom May was one of them, of course; rarely a
pretty face escaped the tribute of at least one proposal from Tom May.
Then there was Roderick Taunton, he with the leonine mane, who 
spared
her none of his forensic eloquence, but found Patricia less tractable
than the most stubborn of juries. Bluff Walter Thurman, too, who was
said to know more of Dickens, whist and criminal law than any other man
living, came to worship at her shrine, as likewise did huge red-faced
Ashby Bland, famed for that cavalry charge which history-books tell you
that he led, and at which he actually was not present, for reasons all
Lichfield knew and chuckled over. And Courtney Thorpe and Charles
Maupin, doctors of the flesh and the spirit severally, were others among
the rivals who gathered about Patricia at decorous festivals when,
candles lighted, the butler and his underlings came with trays of
delectable things to eat, and the "nests" of tables were set out, and
pleasant chatter abounded.

And among Patricia's attendants Colonel Musgrave, it is needless to
relate, was preeminently pertinacious. The two found a deal to talk
about, somehow, though it is doubtful if many of their comments were of
sufficient importance or novelty to merit record. Then, also, he often
read aloud to her from lovely books, for the colonel read admirably and
did not scruple to give emotional passages their value. _Trilby_,
published the preceding spring in book form, was one of these books, for
all this was at a very remote period; and the _Rubaiyat_ was another,
for that poem was as yet unhackneyed and hardly wellknown enough to be
parodied in those happy days.

Once he read to her that wonderful sad tale of Hans Christian Andersen's
which treats of the china chimney-sweep and the shepherdess, who eloped
from their bedizened tiny parlor-table, and were frightened by the
vastness of the world outside, and crept ignominiously back to their fit
home. "And so," the colonel ended, "the little china people remained
together, and were thankful for the rivet in grandfather's neck, and
continued to love each other until they were broken to pieces."

"It was really a very lucky thing," Patricia estimated, "that the
grandfather had a rivet in his 
neck and couldn't nod to the
billy-goat-legged person to take the shepherdess away into his cupboard.
I don't doubt the little china people were glad of it. But after
climbing so far--and seeing the stars,--I think they ought to have had
more to be glad for." Her voice was quaintly wistful.

"I will let you into a secret--er--Patricia. That rivet was made out of
the strongest material in the whole universe. And the old grandfather
was glad, at bottom, he had it in his neck so that he couldn't nod and
separate the shepherdess from the chimney-sweep."

"Yes,--I guess he had been rather a rip among the bric-a-brac in his day
and sympathized with them?"

"No, it wasn't just that. You see these little china people had forsaken
their orderly comfortable world on the parlor table to climb very high.
It was a brave thing to do, even though they faltered and came back
after a while. It is what we all want to do, Patricia--to climb toward
the stars,--even those of us who are too lazy or too cowardly to attempt
it. And when others try it, we are envious and a little uncomfortable,
and we probably scoff; but we can't help admiring, and there is a rivet
in the neck of all of us which prevents us from interfering. Oh, yes,
we little china people have a variety of rivets, thank God, to prevent
too frequent nodding and too cowardly a compromise with
baseness,--rivets that are a part of us and force us into flashes of
upright living, almost in spite of ourselves, when duty and inclination
grapple. There is always the thing one cannot do for the reason that one
is constituted as one is. That, I take it, is the real rivet in
grandfather's neck and everybody else's."

He spoke disjointedly, vaguely, but the girl nodded. "I think I
understand, Olaf. Only, it is a two-edged rivet--to mix metaphors--and
keeps us stiffnecked against all sorts of calls. No, I am not sure that
the thing one cannot do because one is what one is, proves to be always
a cause for international jubilations and fireworks on the lawn."

II

Thus Lichfield, as to
 its staid trousered citizenry, fell prostrate at
Miss Stapylton's feet, and as to the remainder of its adults,
vociferously failed to see anything in the least remarkable in her
appearance, and avidly took and compared notes as to her personal
apparel.

"You have brought Asmodeus into Lichfield," Colonel Musgrave one day
rebuked Miss Stapylton, as they sat in the garden. "The demon of pride
and dress is rampant everywhere--er--Patricia. Even Agatha does her hair
differently now; and in church last Sunday I counted no less than seven
duplicates of that blue hat of yours."

Miss Stapylton was moved to mirth. "Fancy your noticing a thing like
that!" said she. "I didn't know you were even aware I had a blue hat."

"I am no judge," he conceded, gravely, "of such fripperies. I don't
pretend to be. But, on the other hand, I must plead guilty to deriving
considerable harmless amusement from your efforts to dress as an example
and an irritant to all Lichfield."

"You wouldn't have me a dowd, Olaf?" said she, demurely. "I have to be
neat and tidy, you know. You wouldn't have me going about in a
continuous state of unbuttonedness and black bombazine like Mrs. Rabbet,
would you?"

Rudolph Musgrave debated as to this. "I dare say," he at last conceded,
cautiously, "that to the casual eye your appearance is somewhat
--er--more pleasing than that of our rector's wife. But, on the
other hand----"

"Olaf, I am embarrassed by such fulsome eulogy. Mrs. Rabbet isn't a day
under forty-nine. And you consider me _somewhat_ better-looking than she
is!"

He inspected her critically, and was confirmed in his opinion.

"Olaf"--coaxingly--"do you really think I am as ugly as that?"

"Pouf!" said the colonel airily; "I dare say you are well enough."

"Olaf"--and this was even more cajoling--"do you know you've never told
me what sort of a woman you most admire?"

"I don't admire any of them," said Colonel Musgrave, stoutly. "They are
too vain and frivolous--especially the pink-and-white ones," he added,
unkindlily.

"Cousin Agatha has told 
me all about your multifarious affairs of
course. She depicts you as a sort of cardiacal buccaneer and visibly
gloats over the tale of your enormities. She is perfectly dear about
it. But have you never--_cared_--for any woman, Olaf?"

Precarious ground, this! His eyes were fixed upon her now. And hers, for
doubtless sufficient reasons, were curiously intent upon anything in the
universe rather than Rudolph Musgrave.

"Yes," said he, with a little intake of the breath; "yes, I cared once."

"And--she cared?" asked Miss Stapylton.

She happened, even now, not to be looking at him.

"She!" Rudolph Musgrave cried, in real surprise. "Why, God bless my
soul, of course she didn't! She didn't know anything about it."

"You never told her, Olaf?"--and this was reproachful. Then Patricia
said: "Well! and did she go down in the cellar and get the wood-ax or
was she satisfied just to throw the bric-a-brac at you?"

And Colonel Musgrave laughed aloud.

"Ah!" said he; "it would have been a brave jest if I had told her,
wouldn't it? She was young, you see, and wealthy, and--ah, well, I won't
deceive you by exaggerating her personal attractions! I will serve up to
you no praises of her sauced with lies. And I scorn to fall back on the
stock-in-trade of the poets,--all their silly metaphors and similes and
suchlike nonsense. I won't tell you that her complexion reminded me of
roses swimming in milk, for it did nothing of the sort. Nor am I going
to insist that her eyes had a fire like that of stars, or proclaim that
Cupid was in the habit of lighting his torch from them. I don't think
he was. I would like to have caught the brat taking any such liberties
with those innocent, humorous, unfathomable eyes of hers! And they
didn't remind me of violets, either," he pursued, belligerently, "nor
did her mouth look to me in the least like a rosebud, nor did I have the
slightest difficulty in distinguishing between her hands and lilies. I
consider these hyperbolical figures of speech to be idiotic. Ah, no!"
cried Colonel Musgrave, warmin
g to his subject--and regarding it, too,
very intently; "ah, no, a face that could be patched together at the
nearest florist's would not haunt a man's dreams o'nights, as hers does!
I haven't any need for praises sauced with lies! I spurn hyperbole. I
scorn exaggeration. I merely state calmly and judicially that she was
God's masterpiece,--the most beautiful and adorable and indescribable
creature that He ever made."

She smiled at this. "You should have told her, Olaf," said Miss
Stapylton. "You should have told her that you cared."

He gave a gesture of dissent. "She had everything," he pointed out,
"everything the world could afford her. And, doubtless, she would have
been very glad to give it all up for me, wouldn't she?--for me, who
haven't youth or wealth or fame or anything? Ah, I dare say she would
have been delighted to give up the world she knew and loved,--the world
that loved her,--for the privilege of helping me digest old county
records!"

And Rudolph Musgrave laughed again, though not mirthfully.

But the girl was staring at him, with a vague trouble in her eyes. "You
should have told her, Olaf," she repeated.

And at this point he noted that the arbutus-flush in her cheeks began to
widen slowly, until, at last, it had burned back to the little pink
ears, and had merged into the coppery glory of her hair, and had made
her, if such a thing were possible--which a minute ago it manifestly was
not,--more beautiful and adorable and indescribable than ever before.

"Ah, yes!" he scoffed, "Lichfield would have made a fitting home for
her. She would have been very happy here, shut off from the world with
us,--with us, whose forefathers have married and intermarried with one
another until the stock is worthless, and impotent for any further
achievement. For here, you know, we have the best blood in America, and
--for utilitarian purposes--that means the worst blood. Ah, we may prate
of our superiority to the rest of the world,--and God knows, we
do!--but, at bottom, we are worthless. We are worn out, I tel
l you! we
are effete and stunted in brain and will-power, and the very desire of
life is gone out of us! We are contented simply to exist in Lichfield.
And she--"

He paused, and a new, fierce light came into his eyes. "She was so
beautiful!" he said, half-angrily, between clenched teeth.

"You are just like the rest of them, Olaf," she lamented, with a hint
of real sadness. "You imagine you are in love with a girl because you
happen to like the color of her eyes, or because there is a curve about
her lips that appeals to you. That isn't love, Olaf, as we women
understand it. Ah, no, a girl's love for a man doesn't depend altogether
upon his fitness to be used as an advertisement for somebody's
ready-made clothing."

"You fancy you know what you are talking about," said Rudolph Musgrave,
"but you don't. You don't realize, you see, how beautiful she--was."

And this time, he nearly tripped upon the tense, for her hand was on his
arm, and, in consequence, a series of warm, delicious little shivers was
running about his body in a fashion highly favorable to extreme
perturbation of mind.

"You should have told her, Olaf," she said, wistfully. "Oh, Olaf, Olaf,
why didn't you tell her?"

She did not know, of course, how she was tempting him; she did not know,
of course, how her least touch seemed to waken every pulse in his body
to an aching throb, and set hope and fear a-drumming in his breast.
Obviously, she did not know; and it angered him that she did not.

"She would have laughed at me," he said, with a snarl; "how she would
have laughed!"

"She wouldn't have laughed, Olaf." And, indeed, she did not look as if
she would.

"But much you know of her!" said Rudolph Musgrave, morosely. "She was
just like the rest of them, I tell you! She knew how to stare a man out
of countenance with big purple eyes that were like violets with the dew
on them, and keep her paltry pink-and-white baby face all pensive and
sober, till the poor devil went stark, staring mad, and would have
pawned his very soul to tell her that he loved h
er! She knew! She did it
on purpose. She would look pensive just to make an ass of you! She--"

And here the colonel set his teeth for a moment, and resolutely drew
back from the abyss.

"She would not have cared for me," he said, with a shrug. "I was not
exactly the sort of fool she cared for. What she really cared for was a
young fool who could dance with her in this silly new-fangled gliding
style, and send her flowers and sweet-meats, and make love to her
glibly--and a petticoated fool who would envy her fine feathers,--and,
at last, a knavish fool who would barter his title for her money. She
preferred fools, you see, but she would never have cared for a
middle-aged penniless fool like me. And so," he ended, with a vicious
outburst of mendacity, "I never told her, and she married a title and
lived unhappily in gilded splendor ever afterwards."

"You should have told her, Olaf," Miss Stapylton persisted; and then she
asked, in a voice that came very near being inaudible: "Is it too late
to tell her now, Olaf?"

The stupid man opened his lips a little, and stood staring at her with
hungry eyes, wondering if it were really possible that she did not hear
the pounding of his heart; and then his teeth clicked, and he gave a
despondent gesture.

"Yes," he said, wearily, "it is too late now."

Thereupon Miss Stapylton tossed her head. "Oh, very well!" said she;
"only, for my part, I think you acted very foolishly, and I don't see
that you have the least right to complain. I quite fail to see how you
could have expected her to marry you--or, in fact, how you can expect
any woman to marry you,--if you won't, at least, go to the trouble of
asking her to do so!"

Then Miss Stapylton went into the house, and slammed the door after her.

III

Nor was that the worst of it. For when Rudolph Musgrave followed her--as
he presently did, in a state of considerable amaze,--his sister
informed him that Miss Stapylton had retired to her room with an
unaccountable headache.

And there she remained for the rest of the evening. It wa
s an unusually
long evening.

Yet, somehow, in spite of its notable length--affording, as it did, an
excellent opportunity for undisturbed work,--Colonel Musgrave found,
with a pricking conscience, that he made astonishingly slight progress
in an exhaustive monograph upon the fragmentary Orderly Book of an
obscure captain in a long-forgotten regiment, which if it had not
actually served in the Revolution, had at least been demonstrably
granted money "for services," and so entitled hundreds of aspirants to
become the Sons (or Daughters) of various international disagreements.

Nor did he see her at breakfast--nor at dinner.

IV

A curious little heartache accompanied Colonel Musgrave on his way home
that afternoon. He had not seen Patricia Stapylton for twenty-four
hours, and he was just beginning to comprehend what life would be like
without her. He did not find the prospect exhilarating.

Then, as he came up the orderly graveled walk, he heard, issuing from
the little vine-covered summer-house, a loud voice. It was a man's
voice, and its tones were angry.

"No! no!" the man was saying; "I'll agree to no such nonsense, I tell
you! What do you think I am?"

"I think you are a jackass-fool," Miss Stapylton said, crisply, "and a
fortune-hunter, and a sot, and a travesty, and a whole heap of other
things I haven't, as yet had time to look up in the dictionary. And I
think--I think you call yourself an English gentleman? Well, all I have
to say is God pity England if her gentlemen are of your stamp! There
isn't a costermonger in all Whitechapel who would dare talk to me as
you've done! I would like to snatch you bald-headed, I would like to
kill you--And do you think, now, if you were the very last man left in
all the _world_ that I would--No, don't you try to answer me, for I
don't wish to hear a single word you have to say. Oh, oh! how _dare_
you!"

"Well, I've had provocation enough," the man's voice retorted, sullenly.
"Perhaps, I have cut up a bit rough, Patricia, but, then, you've been
talkin' like a fool, you k
now. But what's the odds? Let's kiss and make
up, old girl."

"Don't touch me!" she panted; "ah, don't you _dare!_"

"You little devil! you infernal little vixen? You'll jilt me, will you?"

"Let me go!" the girl cried, sharply. Rudolph Musgrave went into the
summer-house.

The man Colonel Musgrave found there was big and loose-jointed, with
traces of puffiness about his face. He had wheat- hair and
weakish-looking, pale blue eyes. One of his arms was about Miss
Stapylton, but he released her now, and blinked at Rudolph Musgrave.

"And who are you, pray?" he demanded, querulously. "What do you want,
anyhow? What do you mean by sneakin' in here and tappin' on a fellow's
shoulder--like a damn' woodpecker, by Jove! I don't know you."

There was in Colonel Musgrave's voice a curious tremor, when he spoke;
but to the eye he was unruffled, even faintly amused.

"I am the owner of this garden," he enunciated, with leisurely
distinctness, "and it is not my custom to permit gentlewomen to be
insulted in it. So I am afraid I must ask you to leave it."

"Now, see here," the man blustered, weakly, "we don't want any heroics,
you know. See here, you're her cousin, ain't you? By God, I'll leave it
to you, you know! She's treated me badly, don't you understand. She's a
jilt, you know. She's playin' fast and loose----"

He never got any further, for at this point Rudolph Musgrave took him by
the coat-collar and half-dragged, half-pushed him through the garden,
shaking him occasionally with a quiet emphasis. The colonel was angry,
and it was a matter of utter indifference to him that they were
trampling over flower-beds, and leaving havoc in their rear.

But when they had reached the side-entrance, he paused and opened it,
and then shoved his companion into an open field, where a number of
cows, fresh from the evening milking, regarded them with incurious eyes.
It was very quiet here, save for the occasional jangle of the cow-bells
and the far-off fifing of frogs in the marsh below.

"It would have been impossible, of course," sa
id Colonel Musgrave, "for
me to have offered you any personal violence as long as you were, in a
manner, a guest of mine. This field, however, is the property of Judge
Willoughby, and here I feel at liberty to thrash you."

Then he thrashed the man who had annoyed Patricia Stapylton.

That thrashing was, in its way, a masterpiece. There was a certain
conscientiousness about it, a certain thoroughness of execution--a
certain plodding and painstaking carefulness, in a word, such as is
possible only to those who have spent years in guiding fat-witted
tourists among the antiquities of the Lichfield Historical Association.

"You ought to exercise more," Rudolph Musgrave admonished his victim,
when he had ended. "You are entirely too flabby now, you know. That path
yonder will take you to the hotel, where, I imagine, you are staying.
There is a train leaving Lichfield at six-fifteen, and if I were you, I
would be very careful not to miss that train. Good-evening. I am sorry
to have been compelled to thrash you, but I must admit I have enjoyed it
exceedingly."

Then he went back into the garden.

V

In the shadow of a white lilac-bush, Colonel Musgrave paused with an
awed face.

"Good Lord!" said he, aghast at the notion; "what would Agatha say if
she knew I had been fighting like a drunken truck-driver! Or, rather,
what would she refrain from saying! Only, she wouldn't believe it of me.
And, for the matter of that," Rudolph Musgrave continued, after a
moment's reflection, "I wouldn't have believed it of myself a week ago.
I think I am changing, somehow. A week ago I would have fetched in the
police and sworn out a warrant; and, if the weather had been as damp as
it is, I would have waited to put on my rubbers before I would have done
that much."

VI

He found her still in the summer-house, expectant of him, it seemed, her
lips parted, her eyes glowing. Rudolph Musgrave, looking down into twin
vivid depths, for a breathing-space, found time to rejoice that he had
refused to liken them to stars. Stars, forsooth!--and, pr
ay, what paltry
sun, what irresponsible comet, what pallid, clinkered satellite, might
boast a purple splendor such as this? For all asterial scintillations,
at best, had but a clap-trap glitter; whereas the glow of Patricia's
eyes was a matter worthy of really serious attention.

"What have you done with him, Olaf?" the girl breathed, quickly.

"I reasoned with him," said Colonel Musgrave. "Oh, I found him quite
amenable to logic. He is leaving Lichfield this evening, I think."

Thereupon Miss Stapylton began to laugh. "Yes," said she, "you must have
remonstrated very feelingly. Your tie's all crooked, Olaf dear, and your
hair's all rumpled, and there's dust all over your coat. You would
disgrace a rag-bag. Oh, I'm glad you reasoned--that way! It wasn't
dignified, but it was dear of you, Olaf. Pevensey's a beast."

He caught his breath at this. "Pevensey!" he stammered; "the Earl of
Pevensey!--the man you are going to marry!"

"Dear me, no!" Miss Stapylton answered, with utmost unconcern; "I would
sooner marry a toad. Why, didn't you know, Olaf? I thought, of course,
you knew you had been introducing athletics and better manners among the
peerage! That sounds like a bill in the House of Commons, doesn't it?"
Then Miss Stapylton laughed again, and appeared to be in a state of
agreeable, though somewhat nervous, elation. "I wrote to him two days
ago," she afterward explained, "breaking off the engagement. So he came
down at once and was very nasty about it."

"You--you have broken your engagement," he echoed, dully; and continued,
with a certain deficiency of finesse, "But I thought you wanted to be a
countess?"

"Oh, you boor, you vulgarian!" the girl cried, "Oh, you do put things so
crudely, Olaf! You are hopeless."

She shook an admonitory forefinger in his direction, and pouted in the
most dangerous fashion.

"But he always seemed so nice," she reflected, with puckered brows,
"until to-day, you know. I thought he would be eminently suitable. I
liked him tremendously until--" and here, a wonderful, tender chang
e
came into her face, a wistful quaver woke in her voice--"until I found
there was some one else I liked better."

"Ah!" said Rudolph Musgrave.

So, that was it--yes, that was it! Her head was bowed now--her glorious,
proud little head,--and she sat silent, an abashed heap of fluffy frills
and ruffles, a tiny bundle of vaporous ruchings and filmy tucks and
suchlike vanities, in the green dusk of the summer-house.

But he knew. He had seen her face grave and tender in the twilight, and
he knew.

She loved some man--some lucky devil! Ah, yes, that was it! And he knew
the love he had unwittingly spied upon to be august; the shamed
exultance of her face and her illumined eyes, the crimson banners her
cheeks had flaunted,--these were to Colonel Musgrave as a piece of
sacred pageantry; and before it his misery was awed, his envy went
posting to extinction.

Thus the stupid man reflected, and made himself very unhappy over it.

Then, after a little, the girl threw back her head and drew a deep
breath, and flashed a tremulous smile at him.

"Ah, yes," said she; "there are better things in life than coronets,
aren't there, Olaf?"

You should have seen how he caught up the word!

"Life!" he cried, with a bitter thrill of speech; "ah, what do I know of
life? I am only a recluse, a dreamer, a visionary! You must learn of
life from the men who have lived, Patricia. I haven't ever lived. I
have always chosen the coward's part. I have chosen to shut myself off
from the world, to posture in a village all my days, and to consider its
trifles as of supreme importance. I have affected to scorn that brave
world yonder where a man is proven. And, all the while, I was afraid of
it, I think. I was afraid of you before you came."

At the thought of this Rudolph Musgrave laughed as he fell to pacing up
and down before her.

"Life!" he cried, again, with a helpless gesture; and then smiled at
her, very sadly. "'Didn't I know there was something better in life than
grubbing after musty tribes and customs and folk-songs?'" he quoted.
"Why, 
what a question to ask of a professional genealogist! Don't you
realize, Patricia, that the very bread I eat is, actually, earned by the
achievements of people who have been dead for centuries? and in part, of
course, by tickling the vanity of living snobs? That constitutes a nice
trade for an able-bodied person as long as men are paid for emptying
garbage-barrels--now, doesn't it? And yet it is not altogether for the
pay's sake I do it," he added, haltingly. "There really is a fascination
about the work. You are really working out a puzzle,--like a fellow
solving a chess-problem. It isn't really work, it is amusement. And when
you are establishing a royal descent, and tracing back to czars and
Plantagenets and Merovingians, and making it all seem perfectly
plausible, the thing is sheer impudent, flagrant art, and _you_ are the
artist--" He broke off here and shrugged. "No, I could hardly make you
understand. It doesn't matter. It is enough that I have bartered youth
and happiness and the very power of living for the privilege of grubbing
in old county records."

He paused. It is debatable if he had spoken wisely, or had spoken even
in consonance with fact, but his outburst had, at least, the saving
grace of sincerity. He was pallid now, shaking in every limb, and in his
heart was a dull aching. She seemed so incredibly soft and little and
childlike, as she looked up at him with troubled eyes.

"I--I don't quite understand," she murmured. "It isn't as if you were an
old man, Olaf. It isn't as if--"

But he had scarcely heard her. "Ah, child, child!" he cried, "why did
you come to waken me? I was content in my smug vanities. I was content
in my ignorance. I could have gone on contentedly grubbing through my
musty, sleepy life here, till death had taken me, if only you had not
shown me what life might mean! Ah, child, child, why did you waken me?"

"I?" she breathed; and now the flush of her cheeks had widened,
wondrously.

"You! you!" he cried, and gave a wringing motion of his hands, for the
self-esteem of a comp
lacent man is not torn away without agony. "Who
else but you? I had thought myself brave enough to be silent, but still
I must play the coward's part! That woman I told you of--that woman I
loved--was you! Yes, you, you!" he cried, again and again, in a sort of
frenzy.

And then, on a sudden, Colonel Musgrave began to laugh.

"It is very ridiculous, isn't it?" he demanded of her. "Yes, it is
very--very funny. Now comes the time to laugh at me! Now comes the time
to lift your brows, and to make keen arrows of your eyes, and of your
tongue a little red dagger! I have dreamed of this moment many and many
a time. So laugh, I say! Laugh, for I have told you that I love you. You
are rich, and I am a pauper--you are young, and I am old, remember,--and
I love you, who love another man! For the love of God, laugh at me and
have done--laugh! for, as God lives, it is the bravest jest I have ever
known!"

But she came to him, with a wonderful gesture of compassion, and caught
his great, shapely hands in hers.

"I--I knew you cared," she breathed. "I have always known you cared. I
would have been an idiot if I hadn't. But, oh, Olaf, I didn't know you
cared so much. You frighten me, Olaf," she pleaded, and raised a tearful
face to his. "I am very fond of you, Olaf dear. Oh, don't think I am not
fond of you." And the girl paused for a breathless moment. "I think I
might have married you, Olaf," she said, half-wistfully, "if--if it
hadn't been for one thing."

Rudolph Musgrave smiled now, though he found it a difficult business.
"Yes," he assented, gravely, "I know, dear. If it were not for the other
man--that lucky devil! Yes, he is a very, very lucky devil, child, and
he constitutes rather a big 'if,' doesn't he?"

Miss Stapylton, too, smiled a little. "No," said she, "that isn't quite
the reason. The real reason is, as I told you yesterday, that I quite
fail to see how you can expect any woman to marry you, you jay-bird, if
you won't go to the trouble of asking her to do so."

And, this time, Miss Stapylton did not go into th
e house.

VII

When they went in to supper, they had planned to tell Miss Agatha of
their earth-staggering secret at once. But the colonel comprehended, at
the first glimpse of his sister, that the opportunity would be
ill-chosen.

The meal was an awkward half-hour. Miss Agatha, from the head of the
table, did very little talking, save occasionally to evince views of
life that were both lachrymose and pugnacious. And the lovers talked
with desperate cheerfulness, so that there might be no outbreak so long
as Pilkins--preeminently ceremonious among butlers, and as yet inclined
to scoff at the notion that the Musgraves of Matocton were not divinely
entrusted to his guardianship,--was in the room.

Coming so close upon the heels of his high hour, this contretemps of
Agatha's having one of her "attacks," seemed more to Rudolph Musgrave
than a man need rationally bear with equanimity. Perhaps it was a trifle
stiffly that he said he did not care for any raspberries.

His sister burst into tears.

"That's all the thanks I get. I slave my life out, and what thanks do I
get for it? I never have any pleasure, I never put my foot out of the
house except to go to market,--and what thanks do I get for it? That's
what I want you to tell me with the first raspberries of the season.
That's what I want! Oh, I don't wonder you can't look me in the eye. And
I wish I was dead! that's what I wish!"

Colonel Musgrave did not turn at once toward Patricia, when his sister
had stumbled, weeping, from the dining-room.

"I--I am so sorry, Olaf," said a remote and tiny voice.

Then he touched her hand with his finger-tips, ever so lightly. "You
must not worry about it, dear. I daresay I was unpardonably brusque. And
Agatha's health is not good, so that she is a trifle irritable at times.
Why, good Lord, we have these little set-to's ever so often, and never
give them a thought afterwards. That is one of the many things the
future Mrs. Musgrave will have to get accustomed to, eh? Or does that
appalling prospect frighten you too much?"

And P
atricia brazenly confessed that it did not. She also made a face at
him, and accused Rudolph Musgrave of trying to crawl out of marrying
her, which proceeding led to frivolities unnecessary to record, but
found delectable by the participants.

VIII

Colonel Musgrave was alone. He had lifted his emptied coffee-cup and he
swished the lees gently to and fro. He was curiously intent upon these
lees, considered them in the light of a symbol....

Then a comfortable, pleasant-faced mulattress came to clear the
supper-table. Virginia they called her. Virginia had been nurse in turn
to all the children of Rudolph Musgrave's parents; and to the end of her
life she appeared to regard the emancipation of the South's <DW64>s as
an irrelevant vagary of certain "low-down" and probably "ornery" Yankees
--as an, in short, quite eminently "tacky" proceeding which very
certainly in no way affected her vested right to tyrannize over the
Musgrave household.

"Virginia," said Colonel Musgrave, "don't forget to make up a fire in
the kitchen-stove before you go to bed. And please fill the kettle
before you go upstairs, and leave it on the stove. Miss Agatha is not
well to-night."

"Yaas, suh. I unnerstan', suh," Virginia said, sedately.

Virginia filled her tray, and went away quietly, her pleasant yellow
face as imperturbable as an idol's.

PART THREE - TERTIUS

 "It is in many ways made plain to us
 That love must grow like any common thing,
 Root, bud, and leaf, ere ripe for garnering
 The mellow fruitage front us; even thus
 Must Helena encounter Theseus
 Ere Paris come, and every century
 Spawn divers queens who die with Antony
 But live a great while first with Julius.

 "Thus I have spoken the prologue of a play
 Wherein I have no part, and laugh, and sit
 Contented in the wings, whilst you portray
 An amorous maid with gestures that befit
 This lovely role,--as who knows better, pray,
 Than I that helped you in rehearsing it?"

Horace Symonds. _Civic Voluntaries_.

I

When the Presidential campaign was at its height; when in var
ious
sections of the United States "the boy orator of La Platte" was making
invidious remarks concerning the Republican Party, and in Canton (Ohio)
Mr. M.A. Hanna was cheerfully expressing his confidence as to the
outcome of it all; when the Czar and the Czarina were visiting President
Faure in Paris "amid unparalleled enthusiasm"; and when semi-educated
people were appraising, with a glibness possible to ignorance only, the
literary achievements of William Morris and George du Maurier, who had
just died:--at this remote time, Roger Stapylton returned to Lichfield.

For in that particular October Patricia's father, an accommodating
physician having declared old Roger Stapylton's health to necessitate a
Southern sojourn, leased the Bellingham mansion in Lichfield. It
happened that, by rare good luck, Tom Bellingham--of the Bellinghams of
Assequin, not the Bellinghams of Bellemeade, who indeed immigrated after
the War of 1812 and have never been regarded as securely established
from a social standpoint,--was at this time in pecuniary difficulties on
account of having signed another person's name to a cheque.

Roger Stapylton refurnished the house in the extreme degree of
Lichfieldian elegance. Colonel Musgrave was his mentor throughout the
process; and the oldest families of Lichfield very shortly sat at table
with the former overseer, and not at all unwillingly, since his dinners
were excellent and an infatuated Rudolph Musgrave--an axiom now in
planning any list of guests,--was very shortly to marry the man's
daughter.

In fact, the matter had been settled; and Colonel Musgrave had received
from Roger Stapylton an exuberantly granted charter of courtship.

This befell, indeed, upon a red letter day in Roger Stapylton's life.
The banker was in business matters wonderfully shrewd, as divers
transactions, since the signing of that half-forgotten contract whereby
he was to furnish a certain number of mules for the Confederate service,
strikingly attested: but he had rarely been out of the country wherein
his mother b
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding will be sent postpaid on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | Carbolic Salve |
 | |
 | Recommended by Physicians. |
 | |
 | The best Salve in use for all disorders of the Skin, |
 | for Cuts, Burns, Wounds, &c. |
 | |
 | USED IN HOSPITALS |
 | |
 | SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS. |
 | |
 | PRICE 25 CENTS. |
 | |
 | JOHN F. HENRY, Sole Proprietor, |
 | No. 8 College Place, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades, as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | |
 | Sole Agent for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol. I. No. 23.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD, By ORPHEUS C. KERR,

Continued in this Number.

 * * * * *

See 15th page for Extra Premiums.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $47,000 REWARD. |
 | |
 | PROCLAMATION. |
 | |
 | The Murder of Mr. Benjamin Nathan. |
 | |
 | The widow having determined to increase the rewards |
 | heretofore offered by me (in my proclamation of July 29), |
 | and no result having yet been obtained, and suggestions |
 | having b
een made that the rewards were not sufficiently |
 | distributive or specific, the offers in the previous |
 | proclamation are hereby superseded by the following: |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $30,000 will be paid for the arrest and |
 | conviction of the murderer of BENJAMIN NATHAN, who was |
 | killed in hie house, No. 12 West Twenty-third Street, New |
 | York, on the morning of Friday, July 29. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $1,000 will be paid for the identification and |
 | recovery of each and every one of the three Diamond Shirt |
 | Studs which were taken from the clothing of the deceased on |
 | the night of the murder. Two of the diamonds weighed, |
 | together, 1, 1/2, and 1/3, and 1-16 carats, and the other, a |
 | flat stone, showing nearly a surface of one carat, weighed |
 | 3/4 and 1-32. All three were mounted in skeleton settings, |
 | with spiral screws, but the color of the gold setting of the |
 | flat diamond was not so dark as the other two. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $1,500 will be paid for the identification and |
 | recovery of one of the watches, being the Gold anchor |
 | Hunting-case Stem-winding Watch, No. 5657, 19 lines, or |
 | about two inches in diameter, made by Ed. Perregaux; or for |
 | the Chain and Seals thereto attached. The Chain is very |
 | massive, with square links, and carries a Pendant Chain with |
 | two seals, one of them having the monogram "B.N.," cut |
 | thereon. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $300 will be given for information leading to |
 | the identification and recovery of an old-fashioned |
 | open-faced Gold Watch, with gold dial, showing rays |
 | diverging from the center, and with raised figures; believed |
 | to have been made by Tobias, and which was taken at the same |
 | time as the above articles. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $300 will be given for the recovery of a Gold |
 | Medal of about the size of a silver dollar, and which bears |
 | an inscription of presentation not precisely known, but |
 | believed to be either "To Sampson Simpson, President of the |
 | Jews' Hospital," or
, "To Benjamin Nathan, President of the |
 | Jews' Hospital." |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $100 will be given for full and complete |
 | detailed information descriptive of this medal, which may be |
 | useful in securing its recovery. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $1,000 will be given for information leading to |
 | the identification of the instrument used in committing the |
 | murder, which is known as a "dog" or clamp, and is a piece |
 | of wrought iron about sixteen inches long, turned up for |
 | about an inch at each end, and sharp; such as is used by |
 | ship-carpenters, or post-trimmers, ladder-makers, |
 | pump-makers, sawyers, or by iron-moulders to clamp their |
 | flasks. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $800 will be given to the man who, on the |
 | morning of the murder, was seen to ascend the steps and pick |
 | up a piece of paper lying there, and then walk away with it, |
 | if he will come forward and produce it. |
 | |
 | Any information bearing upon the case may be sent to the |
 | Mayor, John Jourdan, Superintendent of Police City of New |
 | York; or to James J. Kelso, Chief Detective Officer. |
 | |
 | A. OAKEY HALL, MAYOR. |
 | |
 | The foregoing rewards are offered by the request of, and are |
 | guaranteed by me. |
 | |
 | Signed, EMILY G. NATHAN, |
 | |
 | Widow of B. NATHAN. |
 | |
 | The following reward has also been offered by the New York |
 | Stock Exchange: |
 | |
 | $10,000.--The New York Stock Exchange offers a reward of Ten |
 | Thousand Dollars for the arrest and conviction of the |
 | murderer or murderers of Benjamin Nathan, late a member of |
 | said Exchange, who was killed on the night of July 28, 1870, |
 | at his house in Twenty-third street. New York City. |
 | |
 | J. L. BROWNELL, Vice-Chairman |
 | |
 | Gov. Com. |
 | |
 | D. C. HAYS, Treasurer. |
 | B. O. WHITE, Secretary. |
 | MAYOR'S OFFICE, New York, August 5, 1870. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for July. 
|
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 Broadway, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary._ |
 | |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents_. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAIL-ROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at |
 | |
 | WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, and July, an attractive and |
 | Saleable Work. |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2845.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +----------------------------------
----------------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY. |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew, |
 | commencing May 31, will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8.45, and |
 | Thirty-fourth st. at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers,(Nyack, and |
 | Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill, |
 | Hudson, and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge |
 | cars in connection with the day boats will leave on arrival |
 | at Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare |
 | $4.25 from New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat |
 | Seneca will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J.M. Sprague |
 | |
 | Is the Authorized Agent of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For the |
 | |
 | New England States, |
 | |
 | To Procure Subscriptions, and to Employ Canvassors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD:

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XVI.

AVUNCULAR DEVOTIO

Having literally _fallen_ asleep from his chair to the rug, J. BUMSTEAD,
Esquire, was found to have reached such an extraordinary depth in
slumber, that Mr. and Mrs. SMYTHE, his landlord and landlady, who were
promptly called in by Mr. DIBBLE, had at first some fear that they
should never be able to drag him out again. In pursuance, however, o
f a
mode of treatment commended to their judgment, by frequent previous
practice with the same patient, the good couple poured a pitcher of
water over his fallen head; hauled him smartly up and down the room,
first by a hand and then by a foot; singed his whiskers with a hot
poker, held him head-downward for a time, and tried various other
approved allopathic remedies. Seeing that he still slept profoundly,
though appearing, by occasional movements of his arms, to entertain
certain passing dreams of single combats, the quick womanly wit of Mrs.
SMYTHE finally hit upon the homoeopathic expedient of softly shaking his
familiar antique flask at his right ear. Scarcely had the soft, liquid
sound therefrom resulting been addressed for a minute to the auricular
orifice, when a singularly pleasing smile wreathed the countenance of
the Ritualistic organist, his eyelids flew up like the spring-covers of
two valuable hunting-case watches, and he suddenly arose to a sitting
position upon the rug and began feeling around for the bed-clothes.

"There!" cried Mrs. SMYTHE, greatly affected by his pathetic expression
of countenance, "you're all right now, sir. How worn-out you must have
been, to sleep so!"

"Do you always go to sleep with such alarming suddenness?" asked Mr.
DIBBLE.

"When I have to go anywhere, I make it a rule to go at once:--similarly,
when going to sleep," was the answer. "Excuse me, however, for keeping
you waiting, Mr. DIBBLE. We've had quite a rain, sir."

His hair, collar, and shoulders being very wet from the water which had
been poured upon him during his slumber, Mr. BUMSTEAD, in his present
newly-awake frame of mind, believed that a hard shower had taken place,
and thereupon turned moody.

"We've had quite a rain, sir, since I saw you last," he repeated,
gloomily, "and I am freshly reminded of my irreparable loss."

"Such an open, spring-like character!" apostrophized the lawyer, staring
reflectively into the grate.

"Always open when it rained, and closing with a spring," said Mr.
BUMSTEAD, in soft 
abstraction lost.

"_Who_ closed with a spring?" queried the elder man, irascibly.

"The umbrella," sobbed JOHN BUMSTEAD.

"I was speaking of your nephew, sir!" was Mr. DIBBLE'S impatient
explanation.

Mr. BUMSTEAD stared at him sorrowfully for a moment, and then requested
Mrs. SMYTHE to step to a cupboard in the next room and immediately pour
him out a bottle of soda-water which she should find there.

"Won't you try some?" he asked the lawyer, rising limply to his feet
when the beverage was brought, and drinking it with considerable noise.

"No, thank you," returned Mr. DIBBLE.

"As you please, then," said the organist, resignedly. "Only, if you have
a headache don't blame me. (Mr. and Mrs. SMYTHE, you may place a few
cloves where I can get them, and retire.) What you have told me, Mr.
DIBBLE, concerning the breaking of the engagement between your ward and
my nephew, relieves my mind of a load. As a right-thinking man, I can no
longer suspect you of having killed EDWIN DROOD."

"Suspect ME?" screamed the aged lawyer, almost leaping into the air.

"Calm yourself," observed Mr. BUMSTEAD, quietly, the while he ate a
sedative clove. "I say that I can _not_ longer suspect you. I can not
think that a person of your age would wantonly destroy a human life
merely to obtain an umbrella."

Absolutely purple in the face, Mr. DIBBLE snatched his hat from a chair
just as the Ritualistic organist was about to sit upon it, and was on
the point of hurrying wrathfully from the room, when the entrance of
Gospeler SIMPSON arrested him.

Noting his agitation, Mr. BUMSTEAD instantly resolved to clear him from
suspicion in the new-comer's mind also.

"Reverend Sir," he said to the Gospeler, quickly, "in this sad affair we
must be just, as well as vigilant I believe Mr. DIBBLE to be as innocent
as ourselves. Whatever may be his failings so far as liquor is
concerned, I wholly acquit him of all guilty knowledge of my nephew and
umbrella."

Too apoplectic with suffocating emotions to speak, Mr. DIBBLE foamed
slightly at the month and t
ore out a lock or two of his hair.

"And I believe that my unhappy pupil, Mr. PENDRAGON, is as guiltless,"
responded the puzzled Gospeler. "I do not deny that he had a quarrel
with Mr. DROOD, in the earlier part of their acquaintance; but, as you,
Mr. BUMSTEAD, yourself, admit, their meeting at the Christmas-Eve dinner
was amicable; as I firmly believe their last mysterious parting to have
been."

The organist raised his fine head from the shadow of his right hand, in
which it had rested for a moment, and said, gravely: "I cannot deny,
gentlemen, that I have had my terrible distrusts of you all. Even now,
while, in my deepest heart, I release Mr. DIBBLE and Mr. PENDRAGON from
all suspicion, I cannot entirely rid my mind of the impression that you,
Mr. SIMPSON, in an hour when, from undue indulgence in stimulants, you
were not wholly yourself, may have been tempted, by the superior
fineness of the alpaca, to slay a young man inexpressibly dear to us
all."

"Great heavens, Mr. BUMSTEAD!" panted the Gospeler, livid with horror,
"I never--"

--"Not a word, sir!" interrupted the Ritualistic organist,--"not a word,
Reverend sir, or it may be used against you at your trial."

Pausing not to see whether the equally overwhelmed old lawyer followed
him, the horribly astounded Gospeler burst precipitately from the house
in wild dismay, and was presently hurrying past the pauper
burial-ground. Whether he had been drawn to that place by some one of
the many mystic influences moulding the fates of men, or because it
happened to be on his usual way home, let students of psychology and
topography decide. Thereby he was hurrying, at any rate, when a shining
object lying upon the ground beside the broken fence, caused him to stop
suddenly and pick up the glittering thing. It was an oroide watch,
marked E.D.; and, a few steps further on, a coppery-looking seal-ring
also attracted the finder's grasp. With these baubles in his hand the
genial clergyman was walking more slowly onward, when it abruptly
occurred to him, that his possess
ion of such property might possibly
subject him to awkward consequences if he did not immediately have
somebody arrested in advance. Perspiring freely at the thought, he
hurried to his house, and, there securing the company of MONTGOMERY
PENDRAGON, conveyed his beloved pupil at once before Judge SWEENEY, and
made affidavit of finding the jewelry. The jeweler, who had wound EDWIN
DROOD'S watch for him on the day of the dinner, promptly identified the
timepiece by the innumerable scratches around the keyhole; Mr. BUMSTEAD,
though at first ecstatic with the idea that the seal-ring was a ferule
from an umbrella, at length allowed himself to be persuaded into a
gloomy recognition of it as a part of his nephew, and MONTGOMERY was
detained in custody for further revelations.

News of the event circulating, the public mind of Bumsteadville lost no
time in deploring the incorrigible depravity of Southern character, and
recollecting several horrors of human Slavery. It was now clearly
remembered that there had once been rumors of terrible cruelties by a
PENDRAGON family to an aged <DW52> man of great piety; who, because he
incessantly sang hymns in the cotton-field, was sent to a field farther
from the PENDRAGON mansion, and ultimately died. Citizens reminded each
other, that when, during the rebellion, a certain PENDRAGON of the
celebrated Southern Confederacy met a former religious chattel of his
confronting him with a bayonet in the loyal ranks, and immediately
afterwards felt a cold, tickling sensation under one of his ribs, he
drew a pistol upon the member of the injured race, who subsequently died
in Ohio of fever and ague. What wonder was it, then, that this young
PENDRAGON with an Indian club and a swelled head should secretly
slaughter the nephew and appropriate the umbrella of one of the most
loyal and devoted Ritualists that ever sent a substitute to battle? In
the mighty metropolis, too, the Great Dailies--those ponderous engines
of varied and inaccurate intelligence--published detailed and mistaken
reports of 
the whole affair, and had subtle editorial theories as to the
nature of the crime. The _Sun,_ after giving a cut of an old-fashioned
parlor-grate as a diagram of Mr. BUMSTEAD'S house, and a portrait of Mr.
JOHN RUSSELL YOUNG as a correct photograph of the alleged murderer by
ROCKWOOD, said:--"The retention of Mr. FISH as Secretary of State by the
present venal Administration, and the official countenance otherwise
corruptly given to friends of Spanish tyranny who do not take the _Sun,_
are plainly among the current encouragements to such crime as that in
the full reporting of which to-day the _Sun's_ advertisements are
crowded down to a single page, as usual. Judge CONNOLLY, after walking
all the way from Yorkville, agrees with the _Sun_ in believing, that
something more than an umbrella tempted this young MONTMORENCY PADREGON
to waylay EDWIN WOOD. To-morrow we shall give the public still further
exclusive revelations, such as the immense circulation of the New York
_Sun_ enables us especially to obtain. On this, as upon every occasion
of the publication of the _Sun,_ we shall leave out columns upon columns
of profitable advertising, in order that no reader of the _Sun_ shall be
stinted in his criminal news. The _Sun_ (price two cents) has never yet
been bought by advertisers, and never will be." The _Tribune_ said:
"What time the reader can spare from perusing our special dispatches
concerning the progress of Smalleyism in Europe, shall, undoubtedly, be
given to our female-reporter's account of the alleged tragedy at
Bumperville. There are reasons of manifest propriety to restrain us, as
superior journalists, from the sensational theorizing indulged by
editors choosing to expend more care and money upon local news than upon
European rumors; but we may not injudiciously hazard the assumption,
that, were the police under any other than Democratic domination, such a
murder as that alleged to have been committed by MANTON PENJOHNSON on
BALDWIN GOOD had not been possible. PENJOHNSON, it shall be noticed, is
a Souther
ner, while young GOOD was strongly Northern in sentiment; and
it requires no straining of a point to trace in these known facts a
sectional antagonism to which even a long war has not yielded full
sanguinary satiation." The _World_ said: "_Acerrima proximorum odia;_
and, under the present infamous Radical abuse of empire, the hatred
between brothers, first fostered by the eleutheromaniacs of
Abolitionism, is bearing its bitter fruit of private assassination at
last. Somewhere amongst our _loci communes_ of to-day may be found a
report of the supposed death, at Hampsteadville (_not_ Bumperville, as a
radical contemporary has it,) of a young Northerner named GOODWIN BLOOD,
at the hands of a Southern gentleman belonging to the stately old
Southern family of PENTORRENS. The PENTORRENS' are related, by old
cavalier stock, to the Dukes of Mandeville, whose present ducal
descendant combines the elegance of an Esterhazy with the intellect of
an Argyle. That a scion of such blood as this has reduced a fellow-being
to a condition of inanimate protoplasm, is to be regretted for his sake;
but more for that of a country in which the philosophy of COMTE finds in
a corrupt radical pantarchy all-sufficient first-cause of whatsoever is
rotten in the State of Denmark." The Times said: "We give no details of
the Burnstableville tragedy to-day, not being willing to pander to a
vitiated public taste; but shall do so to-morrow."

After reading these articles in the Great Dailies with considerable
distraction, and inferring therefrom, that at least three different
young Southerners had killed three different young Northerners in three
different places on Christmas-Eve, Judge SWEENEY had a rush of blood to
the brain, and discharged MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON as a person of
undistinguishable identity. But, when set at large, the helpless youth
could not turn a corner without meeting some bald-headed reporter who
raised the cry of "Stop thief!" if he sought to fly, and, if he paused,
interviewed him in a magisterial manner, and almost tearfully
 implored
him to Confess his crime in time for the Next Edition.

Father DEAN, Ritual Rector of St. Cow's, meeting Gospeler SIMPSON upon
one of their daily strolls through the snow, said to him:

"This young man, your pupil, has sinned, it appears, and a Ritualistic
church, Mr. Gospeler, is no sanctuary for sinners."

"I cannot believe that the sin is his, Holy Father," answered the
Reverend OCTAVIUS, respectfully: "but, even if it is, and he is
remorseful for it, should not our Church cover him with her wings?"

"There are no wings to St. Cow's yet," returned the Father,
coldly,--"only the main building; and that is too small to harbor any
sinner who has not sufficient means to build a wing or two for himself."

"Then," said the Gospeler, bowing his head and speaking slowly, "I
suppose he must go to the Other Church."

"What Other church?"

The Gospeler raised his hat and spoke reverently:--

That which is all of God's world outside this little church of ours.
That in which the Altar is any humble spot pressed by the knees of the
Unfortunate. That in which the priest is whoso doeth a good, unselfish
deed, even if in the shadow of the scaffold. That in which the anthem of
visible charity for an erring brother sinks into the listening soul an
echo of an unseen Father's pity and forgiveness, and the choral service
is the music of kind words to all who ever found but unkind words
before."

"You must mean the Church of the Pooritans," said the Ritual Rector.

So, MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON went forth from Gospeler's Gulch to seek harbor
where he might; and, a day or two afterwards, Mr. BUMSTEAD exhibited to
Mr. SIMPSON the following entry in his famous Diary.

"No signs of that umbrella yet. Since the discovery of the watch and
seal-ring, I am satisfied that my umbrella, only, was the temptation of
the murderer. I now swear that I will no more discuss either my nephew
or my umbrella with any living soul, until I have found once more the
familiar boyish form and alpaca canopy, or brought vengeance upon him
through whom I am
 nephewless and without protection in the rain."

(_To be Continued._)

 * * * * *

CHINCAPIN AMONG THE FREE LOVERS.

MR. PUNCHINELLO: When Oratory, rising to its loftiest flights upon the
wings of Buncombe, denounces with withering scorn the effete and
tyrannical monarchies of Europe, and proclaims the glorious fact that
this is a Free Country, Fellow Citizens! it hardly does us justice. We
are not only free, Mr. PUNCHINELLO, we are Free and Easy, sir. Breathes
there a man so tortuously afflicted with Strabismus that he doesn't see
it? If such there be let him go and visit the Oneida Community.

Last week I took a run down to Oneida myself. I found the Communists a
very Social crowd, I can assure you. PROUDHON himself might be proud of
such disciples, and DESIDERANT find nothing there to be Desiderated. The
Communists divide everything equally, particularly the Affections, so
there are no Better Halves among them. In Utah, you are aware, Mr.
PUNCHINELLO, the women are Sealed to the men, but among these people
they are not even Wafered. Your Own IDA may be anybody else's in the
Oneida Community. The only individuals that object to Dividing are the
children, who are generally opposed to Division, both long and Short, as
well as to Fractions.

Infants don't go for much among the Free Lovers, and are Put Out--to
Nurse. After the age of Fifteen months they are surrendered by their
Ma's to the Charge of the Two Hundred (the number of men and women in
the Community,) who become their common parents, and the infants become
common property. The domestic arrangements are entrusted to two females,
who are called the "Mothers of the Community." But whether these dual
Mothers Do All the Nursing I am unable to say.

I had a little conversation with the Eminent and Aged Free Lover who
acted as my guide, and I give it in the manner of the "interviewing
reporter."

CHINC. Venerable Seer, tip us your views on the subject of Love.

AGED FREE-LOVER Do you then take an Interest in our Principles?

CHINC. (Dubiously.) Then you _have_
--

A. F. L. Yes, of our own. They are not those of a prejudiced Wor-r-r-ld.
Our principles are Embraced in the Communism of Love and Passional
Attraction.

CHINC. (Confidently.) Ah, yes; of course--you are Free Lovers.

A. F. L. Sir-r-r?

CHINC. (Much abashed.) Excuse me. I am young, inexperienced, and but
slightly acquainted with the Dictionary.

A. P. L. So I see. Know, young man, that we scorn and repudiate the name
of Free Lovers as applied to us by the newspapers. It is true we believe
that Love should be untrammelled by the Hateful Bonds of Marriage. With
us a Lady may have an affinity for any number of gentlemen, and
vice-versa. But we are not Free Lovers.

CHINC. Oh, no! Not by no means. Not any.

A. F. L. (Growing eloquent.) We have only advanced from the simple to
the more complex form of matrimony. Why should not the faithfulness
which constitutes the wretchedly exclusive dual Marriage of the
Wor-r-r-ld exist as well between Two Hundred as between two? Why?

CHINC. Why, O why? But there may be reasons--

A.F.L. Young Man, reared in the hateful prejudices of an Unprogressive
Wor-r-ld, there air none.

CHINC. This system, as you, Ancient Person, observe, is much complexed.
Do I, then, understand you that a woman may have fifty affinities and
yet be faithful to each?

A.F.L. Yes, my son, any number. This plurality of affinities you of
course cannot appreciate. A prejudiced Wor-r-r-ld cannot understand the
Bond of Union which connects all the Brothers and Sisters in a Spiritual
Marriage. The results of the complex system are--

CHINC. (Interrupting.) I--I--fear the complexity of your system is one
too many for me. I feel that my Brow cannot stand the pressure. I must
away. Farewell, old man--Adieu!

Such, Mr. PUNCHINELLO, is briefly the Free and Easy Doctrine of Natural
Affinity and Passional Attraction. I have no doubt there are some
illiberal Persons who would give it a much harsher name. For myself, I
believe in the Biggest kind of Liberty, but not for the Biggest kind of
Libertines. Reverentially your
s,

CHINCAPIN.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: LACONIC, BUT EXPRESSIVE.

SCENE: NEIGHBORHOOD OF THE FIVE POINTS

_First Ruffian._ "WHERE TO NOW, SNOOTY?"

_Second Ditto._ "PICNIC."

_First Ditto._ "WOTTERYER GOT IN YER LUNCH WALLET?"

_Second Ditto._ "SLUNG SHOT."]

 * * * * *

REJUVENATED FRANCE.

PUNCHINELLO has perused a draft of the next Constitution of the French
people, or of France, if that is better. Unwilling to give it to his
readers in full, at present, he considers himself authorized, however,
to cite a few paragraphs of it, which will be found both original and
interesting.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONSTITUTION OF FRANCE. (One a year, more or less.)

_Paragraph_ 1. The French Nation is sovereign; the French people are
sovereign; sovereigns are sovereign; every Frenchman is sovereign.

_Paragraph_ 2. All men are equal, but Frenchmen are highly superior to
all other men.

_Paragraph_ 3. In order to secure peace, it is decreed and plebiscited
that all governments shall have a chance. For the next ten years, or
less, the Orleans Dynasty shall rule; after that a BONAPARTE for a few
years; then a Republic, "democratic and social," as long as it can keep
on its legs. After that a second Republic, for a twelvemonth at least.
Then an old BOURBON, if one can be found. After this, a military
dictatorship; the army to decide its duration. At each change the people
will decide by plebiscit whether they want the respective governments to
be: _personal_, _legal_, or neither.

_Paragraph_ 4.--But here we must stop.

 * * * * *

Titans.

The _Liberte_ says: "A lot of crazy fellows tried to proclaim the
republic at Toulouse." Now there are manifestly two errors in this
statement. The fellows alluded to were not Toulouse, but too tight
fellows. Moreover, if they really had been crazies, as the _Liberte_
supposes, they would have been instantly arrested and sent to Paris,
under guard, by the way of the Madder line, to await the action of the
Prefect of the Sane.

 * * * * *

Astronomical.

A NEW Milky Way has been discovered. It is t
he way the milk producers
(farmers, not cows,) of Westchester County have of insisting upon
raising their charges for milk from four cents to five cents a quart,
wholesale. We fail to discern the milk of human kindness, here; but it
is clear that the milk in the cocoa-nuts of these farmers is mighty
sour.

 * * * * *

WHAT SIGERSON SAYS.

SIGERSON (Dr.) of the Royal Irish Academy, has gone and said some mighty
unpleasant things about the Atmosphere. How he found them out, we can't
say, (and we hope _he_ can't:) but nevertheless, he declares, with the
most dreadful calmness, that if you go to visit the Iron Works, you will
inevitably breathe a great many hollow Balls of Iron, say about one two
thousandth of an inch in diameter! What these rather diminutive
ferruginous globules will do for you, we do not know; but you can see
for yourself, that with your lungs full of little iron balls you must
certainly be in a "parlous" state. We should say that we had quite as
lief have the air full of those iron spheres, termed Cannon Balls, as it
is now in France. It is true, one couldn't get many of _these_ inside
one with impunity; and equally true, that foundry men do manage to live,
with all that iron in their lungs; but we can't say we desire to "build
up an Iron Constitution," as the P-r-n S-r-p folks say, by the inhaling
process.

But SIGERSON is not content to render the neighborhood of Iron Works
questionable to the delicate and apprehensive; in "shirt-factory air" he
declares, upon honor, "there are little filaments of linen and cotton,
with minute eggs" (goodness gracious!) "Threshing machines," he more
than insinuates, "fill the air with fibres, starch-grains and spores,"
(spores! think of that;) and (what is truly ha(i)rrowing,) in "stables
and barber's shops" you cannot but breathe "scales and hairs." Good
Heavens!

What he says of printers and smokers is simply horrible; in short, this
dreadful SIGERSON has gone and made life a wretched and lingering (to
quote the sensitive Mrs. GAMP,) "progiss through this mort
ial wale."

 * * * * *

THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacation.

When we visit ordinary places of summer resort, we require no particular
outfit, (it being remembered that the "we" alluded to comprehends only
males,) excepting a suitable supply of summer clothes. But when we go to
the Adirondacks,--certainly a most extraordinary place of summer
resort,--we require an outfit which is as remarkable as the region
itself. Thoroughly understanding this necessity, Mr. PUNCHINELLO made
himself entirely ready for a life in the woods before he set out for the
Adirondack Mountains. Witness the completeness of his preparations.

The railroad to the heart of this delightful resort is not yet finished,
and when Mr. P. had completed his long journey, in which the excellence
and abominabitity,--so to speak,--of every American form of conveyance
was exhibited, he was glad enough to see before him those charming wilds
which are gradually being tamed down by the well-to-do citizens of New
York and Boston. He found that it was necessary, in order to enter the
district, to pass through a gate in a high pale-fence, and, to his
surprise, he was informed that he must buy a ticket before being allowed
to proceed. On inquiry, he discovered that the Reverend Mr. MURRAY, of
Boston, claiming the whole Adirondack region by right of discovery, had
fenced it entirely in, and demanded entrance money of all visitors.

This was bad, to be sure, but there was no help for it, and Mr. P.
bought his ticket and passed in.

The Adirondack scenery is peculiar. In the first place, there are no
pavements or gravel walks.

This is a grievous evil, and should be remedied by Mr. MURRAY as soon as
possible. The majority of the paths are laid out in the following
manner.

The scenery, however, would be very fine if the bugs were transparent.

The multitudes of insectivorous carnivora, which arose to greet Mr. P.,
effectually prevented him from seeing anything more than a yard distant.

But if this had been all, Mr. P. would not have uttered a word of
com
plaint. It was not all, by any means.

These hungry creatures, these black-flies; midges; mosquitoes; yellow
bloodsuckers; poison-bills; corkscrew-stingers; hook-tailed hornets; and
all the rest of them settled down upon him until they covered him like a
suit of clothes. A warmer welcome was never extended to a traveller in a
strange land.

In case his readers should not be familiar with the animal, the
accompanying drawing will give an admirable idea of the celebrated
black-fly of the Adirondacks, which, with the grizzly bear and the
rattlesnake, occupies the front rank among American ferocious animals.

After travelling on foot for a day and a night; drenched by rain;
scorched by the sun; crippled by rocks and roots; frightened by
rattle-snakes and panthers; blistered and swollen by poisonous insects;
nearly starved; tired to death; and presenting the most pitiable
appearance in the world, Mr. P. reached the encampment of Mr. MURRAY,
proprietor and exhibitor of the Adirondacks.

Knowing that there was quite a large company in the camp, Mr. P. was
almost ashamed to show himself in such a doleful plight, but he soon
found that there was no need for any scruples on that account, as they
were all as wretched looking as himself.

Mr. MURRAY welcomed him cordially, and after building a "smudge" around
him to keep off the flies, he gave Mr. P. some Boston brown-bread and a
glass of pure water from a rill.

This, with a sip from Mr. P.'s little flask, revived him considerably,
and after a night's rest on the lee side of a tree, where the rain did
not wet him nearly so much as if he had been on the other side, Mr. P.
felt himself equal to the task of enjoying the Adirondacks.

That morning, Mr. MURRAY conducted a melancholy party of disconsolate
pleasure-seekers to a neighboring stream, where he instructed them to
fish for trout.. He told them they must revel in the delights of the
scene, and should tremble with the wild rapture of drawing from the
rushing waters the bounding trout.

Mr. P. tried very hard to do this. H
e put his prettiest fly and his
sharpest hook on his longest line, and, for hours, gently whipped the
ripples. At last a speckled representative of the American National
Game-fish took compassion on the patient fisherman and entered into a
contest of skill with him. (A friendly match, and no bets on either
side.) The game lasted some time. The fish made some splendid
"fly-catches;" and Mr. P., slipping on a wet stone at the edge of the
brook, got in once on his base. On this occasion, the line and a
black-berry bush arranged a decided "foul" between them. At last, just
at the most interesting point of the game, the sudden sting of a
steel-bee caused Mr. P. to give a quick bawl, when the fish took a
home-run and came back no more. Time of game, 3h., 50m.

 Mr. P. 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0--1.
 Trout 6 9 8 7 9 9 9 9 9--75.

That afternoon Mr. MURRAY took the party to Crystal Brook, Shanty Brook,
Mainspring Brook, Tenement Brook, and more little mountain gutters of
the kind than you could count on your fingers and toes. As an
aristocratic residence, this region is certainly superior to New York,
for the Murray Hills are as plenty as blackberries. The next day they
all went up Mount Marcy. When the ascent was completed, everybody lay
down and went to sleep. They were too tired to bother themselves about
the view. At length, after a good nap, Mr. MURRAY got up and wakened the
party, and they all came down.

They came by the way of the "grand slide," but Mr. P. didn't like it.
His tailor, however, will no doubt think very highly of it.

When all was quiet, that evening, on Dangle-worm Creek, near which
they were encamped, Mr. P. found the Reverend MURRAY sitting in the
smoke of his private smudge, enjoying his fragrant pipe. Seating himself
by the veteran pioneer, Mr. P. addressed him thus:

"Tell me, Mr. MURRAY, in confidence, your opinion of the Adirondacks."

"Sir," said Mr. MURRAY, "I have no objection to give a person of your
respectability and knowledge of the world my opinion of this region, but
I do not wish it made pu
blic."

"Of course, sir!" said Mr. P. "A man of your station and antecedents
would not wish his private opinions to be made too public. You may rely
upon my discretion."

"Well, then," said the reverend mountaineer, "I think the Adirondacks an
unmitigated humbug, and I wish I had never let the world know that there
was such a place."

"Why then do you come here every season, sir?"

"After all I have written and said about it," said Mr. MURRAY, "I have
to come to keep up appearances. Don't you see? But I hate these
mountains from the bottom of my heart. For every word I have written in
praise of the region I have a black-fly-bite on my legs. For every word
I have said in favor of it I have a scratch or a bruise in some other
part of my corpus. I wish that there was no such a season as
summer-time, or else no such a place as the Adirondacks."

(Readers of this paper are requested to skip the above, as those are Mr.
MURRAY'S private opinions, and not the statements he makes in public,
and his desire to keep them dark should be respected.)

It may be of interest to his patrons to know that Mr. P. arrived home
safely and with whole bones.

 * * * * *

RAMBLINGS.

BY MOSE SKINNER.

MR. PUNCHINELLO: The editor of the Slunkville _Lyre_ says in his last
issue:--

"Notwithstanding the calumnies of Mr. SKINNER, our reputation is still
good, and we continue to pay our debts promptly."

This is the fifth hoax he has perpetrated within two weeks. His line of
business at present seems to be the _canard_ line.

I'll trust him out of sight if I can keep one eye on him. Not otherwise.

For a light recreation, combining a little business, I recommend his
funeral.

It is pleasant to reflect that men of his stamp are never born again.
They are born once too much as it is.

He went to the Agricultural Fair last Fall. There was a big potato
there. After gazing spell-bound upon it for one hour, he rushed home and
set the following in type:

"What is the difference between the Rev. ADAM CLARK, and the big potato
at the fair? One is a Com
mentator, and the other is an _Un_common
'tater."

This conundrum was so exquisitely horrible, that his friends hoped he'd
have judgment enough to hang himself, but such things die hard.

Colonel W-----'s Goat. Colonel W-----, is a great man in these parts
Like most village nabobs, he's a corpulent gentleman with a great show
of dignity, and in a white vest and gold-headed cane, looks eminently
respectable. He owns a hot-house, keeps a big dog that is very savage,
and his wife wears a silk dress at least three times a week,--either of
which will establish a man's reputation in a country town.

Everything belonging to the Colonel is held in the utmost awe by the
villagers. The paper speaks of him as "our esteemed and talented
townsman, Col. W.," and alludes to his "beautiful and accomplished
wife," who, by the way, was formerly waiter in an oyster saloon, and won
the Colonel's affection by the artless manner in which she would shout:
"Two stews, plenty o' butter."

Like others of his stamp, the Colonel amounts to something just where he
is, but take him anywhere else, he'd be a first-class, eighteen carat
fraud.

Awhile ago, the Colonel bought a goat for his little boy to drive in
harness, and the animal often grazed at the foot of a cliff, near the
house. One day, a man wandering over this cliff fell and was instantly
killed, evidently having come in contact with the goat, for the animal's
neck was broken.

But what amused me was the way the aforesaid editor spoke of the affair.
He wrote half a column on the "sad death of Col. W's. goat," but not a
word of the unfortunate dead man, till he wound up as follows:

"We omitted to state that a dead man was picked up near the unfortunate
goat. It is supposed that this person, in wandering over the cliff, lost
his foothold and fell, striking the doomed animal in his progress. Thus,
through the carelessness of this obscure individual, was Col. W's. poor
little goat hurled into eternity."

The Superintendent asked me last Sunday to take charge of a class.
"You'll find 'em
 rather a bad lot" said he. "They all went fishing last
Sunday but little JOHNNY RAND. _He_ is really a good boy, and I hope his
example may yet redeem the others. I wish you'd talk to 'em a little."

I told him I would.

They were rather a hard looking set. I don't think I ever witnessed a
more elegant assortment of black eyes in my life. Little JOHNNY RAND,
the good boy, was in his place, and I smiled on him approvingly. As soon
as the lessons were over, I said:

"Boys, your Superintendent tells me you went fishing last Sunday. All
but little JOHNNY, here."

"You didn't go, did you, JOHNNY?" I said.

"No, sir."

"That was right. Though this boy is the youngest among you," I
continued, "you will now learn from his lips words of good counsel,
which I hope you will profit by."

I lifted him up on the seat beside me, and smoothed his auburn ringlets.

"Now, JOHNNY, I want you to tell your teacher, and these wicked boys,
why you didn't go fishing with them last Sunday. Speak up loud, now. It
was because it was very wicked, and you had rather come to the Sunday
School. Wasn't it?"

"No, sir, it was 'cos I couldn't find no worms for bait."

Somehow or other these good boys always turn out humbugs.

It is hardly good taste to introduce anything of a pathetic nature in an
article intended to be humorous, but the following displays such
infinite depth of tenderness, fortified by strength of mind, that I
cannot forbear. Although it occurred when I was quite young, it is
firmly impressed on my memory:

The autumn winds sighed drearily through the leafless trees, as the
solemn procession passed slowly into the quiet church-yard, and paused
before the open grave, where all that was mortal of LUCY C----- was to
be laid away forever, and when the white-haired old pastor, with
trembling voice, recounted her last moments, sobs broke out afresh, for
she was beloved by all.

The bereaved husband stood a little apart, and, though no tear escaped
him, yet we all instinctively felt that his heart was wrung with agony,
and his burden 
greater than he could bear. With folded arms, and eyes
bent upon the coffin, he seemed buried in a deep and painful reverie.
None dared intrude upon a grief so sacred. At last, turning to his
brother, and pointing to the coffin, he said:

"JOHN, don't you call that rather a neat looking box for four dollars?"

 * * * * *

Financial.

Our French editor thinks that the Imperial revenues ought to be doubled
at once, on the ground of the too evident Income-pittance of the
Emperor.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: AN EXCURSION.

_Fanny_. "ISN'T IT TOO BAD, FRANK; WE SHALL GET BACK TO TOWN LONG BEFORE
DARK."

(_Fact is, Fanny has a thick shawl, and it would be so nice to share it
with Frank._)]

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: I see you have been at the White Sulphur Springs; but
you forgot to tell us what we were all dying to hear about the waters.
Several friends had suggested that I should go to some watering place
where I could get nothing else but water to drink, or to some spring
where I couldn't get "sprung." I tried the White Sulphur, and while
there learned some facts that may be useful to others who seek them for
a similar purpose.

These springs differ from the European springs in that they were not
discovered by the Romans. The Latin conquerors never roamed so far, and
it was perhaps a good thing for them that they didn't, Sulphur water
could not have agreed with Romans any more than it agrees with Yankees
who take whiskey with it. I was asked if I would like to analyse the
water, (as everything here is done by analysis under the eye of the
resident physician.) _My_ analysis was done entirely under the nose.

I raised a glass of the enchanted fluid to my lips: but my nose said
very positively, "Don't do it," and I didn't. I told my conductor I had
analyzed it, and he seemed not a little astonished at the rapidity and
simplicity of the method. He asked me if I would be kind enough to write
out a statement of the result after the manner of Dr. HAYES, Prof.
ROGERS, and others who have examined these w
aters and testified that
they would cure everything but hydrophobia. I told him I would, and
retiring to my room, wrote as follows:

"Sulphur water contains mineral properties of a sulphuric character,
owing to the fact that the water runs over beds of sulphur. Nobody has
ever seen these beds, but they are supposed to constitute the cooler
portions of those dominions corresponding to the Christian location of
Purgatory. Sinners, preliminary to being plunged into the fiery furnace,
are laid out on these beds and wrapped in damp sheets by chambermaids
regularly attached to the establishment. This is meant to increase the
torture of their subsequent sufferings, and there can be no doubt that
it succeeds. Herein we have also an explanation of the reason of these
waters coming to the surface of the earth--it is to give patients and
other _miserables_ who drink them a foretaste of future horrors. Passing
from this branch of the subject to the analysis proper, I find that
fifty thousand grains of sulphur water divided, into one hundred parts,
contains,

 Bilge water, - - - - - - - - - - 95.75
 Sulphate of Bilgerius, - - - - - 1.855
 Chloride of Bilgeria, - - - - - - .285
 Carbonate de Bilgique, - - - - - - .750
 Silica Bilgica, - - - - - - - - - 1.955
 Hydro-sulp-Bil, - - - - - - - - - .28

Twenty thousand grains of the water would contain less of the above
element than fifty thousand grains, which ought to be mentioned as
another one of the remarkable peculiarities of this most remarkable
fluid."

I sent the foregoing scientific deductions to the "Resident Physician,"
and the bearer told me afterwards that the venerable Esculapian only
observed,--"Well, the writer of that must have been a most egregious
ass. There is no such thing as 'Sulphate of Bilgerius,' or 'Silica
Bilgica,' or anything like them", and then the old fellow chuckled to
himself over my supposed ignorance. I was willing he should. I'm
accustomed to being called an ass, and always like to be recognized by
my kindred. Chemically thine,

SULPHURO.

 * * *
 * *

COOL, IF NOT COMFORTABLE.

Apropos of complications arising out of the late Navy Appropriation Law,
a daily paper states as follows:

"The decision of the Attorney General now forces him to turn the balance
into the Treasury, and the sailors have to go unclothed."

How this decision will affect recruiting for our navy yet remains to be
seen, though it is probable that but few civilized men can be found to
join a service in which nudity is obligatory. In such torrid weather as
we are having, JACK ashore with nothing on, except, perhaps, a Panama
hat, will be a novel and refreshing object--but how about the police?

 * * * * *

[Illustration: LAW VERSUS LAWLESSNESS. THE VIRTUOUS ALLIES OF THE NEW
YORK "SUN" ENGAGED IN THEIR CONGENIAL OCCUPATION OF THROWING DIRT.]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN ON BASE BALL.

A Match Game between Centenarians.--"Roomatix" vs. "Bloostockin's."

The veterans of the war of 1812 of this place, organized a base ball
club.

It was called the "Roomatix base ball club."

A challinge was sent to the "Bloo stockin' base ball club," an old man's
club in an adjoinin' town. They met last week to play a match game.

It required rather more macheenery than is usually allowed in this grate
nashunal game of chance.

For instance: The pitchers haden't very good eye-site, and were just as
liable to pitch a ball to "2nd base," as to "Home base."

To make a sure thing of it, a big long tin tube was made, on the
principle of the Noomatic tunnel under Broadway, New York. A large
thing, like a molasses funnel, was made, onto the end facin' the
pitcher.

The old man ceased the ball and pitched it into the brod openin'. The
raceway was slantin' downwards, towords the "_Homebase._" The batter
stood at his post, with an ear trumpet at his ear, and a wash-bord in
his two hands holdin' onto the handles.

When he heard the ball come rollin' down the tin, he would "muff" it
with his wash-bord. Then the excitement would begin. The "striker" would
start off and go feelin' about the "field" for the base, while the
"o
uts" got down onto their bands and knees and went huntin' for the
ball.

Sometimes a "fielder," whose sense of feelin' wasen't very acute, got
hold of a cobble stun, then he would waddle, and grope his way about, to
find the base. But I tell you it was soothin' fun for the old men.

After lookin' 20 minuts for a ball, then findin' the base before the
batter did, who just as like as not had strayed out into another lot, it
made the old fellers laff.

Sometimes two players would run into each other and go tumblin' over
together. Then the "Umpire" would go and get them onto their pins agin,
and give 'em a fresh start.

On each side of this interestin' match game, was two old men who went on
crutches.

It was agreed, as these men coulden't run the bases, that a man be
blindfolded and wheel these aged <DW36>s about the bases in a
wheel-barrer.

The minnit these old chaps would "strike," they dropped their crutches,
and the umpire would dump them into the _vehicle,_ and away went mister
striker.

A player was bein' wheeled this way once, and the "outs" was down onto
their marrow-bones tryin' to find the ball, when a splash! was heard.
The wheel-barrer man had run his cart into a goose pond, and made a
scatterin' among the geese.

"Fowl!" cride the Umpire.

The wheel-barrer man drew his lode ashore.

"Out!" hollers the Umpire.

And another victim went to the wash-bord.

Bets were offered 2 to one, that "The Roomatixs" would _pass_ more
balls--on their hands and knees--than the "Bloostockin's." These bets
were freely taken--by obligin' stake-holders.

A friend of the "Bloostockin's" jumped upon a pile of stuns and said:

"15 to 10 'the Roomatix' have got more _blinds_ than the
'Bloostockin's.'"

No takers--I guess he would have won his bet, for just at this juncture
a "Roomatix" was at the bat.

The Umpire moved his head.

The old man thought it was the ball, and he "muffed" the "Umpire's" head
with his wash-bord.

The Umpire turned suddenly and wanted to know: "Who was firin' spit
balls at his back hair?"

One "innins,"
 the ball was rolled through, it struck the batter in the
rite eye.

"Out on rite eye," cride the Umpire, and the batter was minus an eye.

Next man to the bat.

His eyes were gummy. He coulden't see the ball.

He heard the ball rollin'.

He raised his wash-board.

His strength gave way.

Down came the bat, and the handle of the wash-bord entered his eye.

"Out! on the left eye," screams the Umpire.

Old man No. 3 went to the wash-bord.

The ball came tearin' along.

It was a little too swift for the old man.--Rather too much "English"
into it. It "Kissed" and made a "scratch," strikin' the "Cushion"
between the old man's eyes.

This gave him the "cue." Tryin' to make a "draw" with the wash bord, so
as to "Uker" the ball, and "checkmate" the other club, he was
"distansed," and his spectacles went flyin', smashin' the glass and
shuttin' off his eyesite.

"Out! agin," bellers the Umpire.

This was the first _Blind_ innin's for the "Roomatix."

The "Bloostockin's" bein' told how this innin's stood, by addressin'
them through their ear-trumpets, made a faint effort to holler
"Whooray!"

And, I am grieved to say it, one by-stander, who diden't understand the
grate nashunal game, wanted to know:

"What in thunder them old dry bones was cryin' about"

It was a crooel remark, altho' the old men, not bein' used to hollerin'
much, and not havin' any teeth, did make rather queer work tryin' to
holler.

Ime sorry to say, the game wasen't finished.

Refreshments were served at the end of this innin's, consistin' of
Slippery Elm tea and water gruel.

The old men eat harty.

This made them sleepy, and the consequence was, that the minnit they was
led out on the grass, "Sleep, barmy sleep," got the best of 'em, and
they laid down and slept like infants.

Both nines were then loaded onto stone botes and drawn off of the field.

The friends of both sides _drew_ their stake money, and the Umpire,
_drawin'_ a long breath, declared the match a _draw_ game.

Basely Ewers, HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._

 * * * * *

B
ad Eggs.

The following suggestive item appears in an evening paper:

"Illinois boasts of chickens hatched by the sun."

Well, New York can beat Illinois at that game. The chickens hatched by
the _Sun_, here, are far too numerous for counting, and they are curses
of the kind that will assuredly "come home to roost."

 * * * * *

Disagreeable, but True.

The restoration of the Bourbon dynasty is reckoned possible in France.

In this country the Bourbon die-nasty has never been played out. It is a
malignant disease, sometimes known as _delirium tremens._

 * * * * *

Musical.

Mlle. Silly, the daily papers inform us, has been engaged for the Grand
Opera House in _opera bouffe_, and will make her _debut_ about the
middle of September. The lady should not be confounded with any of our
New York "girls of the period" who bear, (or ought to bear,) her name.

 * * * * *

Caution to Readers.

Seven steady business men of this city, four solid capitalists of
Boston, eighteen Frenchmen residents of the United States, but doing
business nowhere, and a German butcher in the Bowery, have just been
added to sundry lunatic asylums, their intellects having become
hopelessly deranged from reading the conflicting telegrams about the war
in Europe.

 * * * * *

A Parallel.

In one of the reports of the Coroner's investigation of the Twenty-third
street murder, it was mentioned that "Several ladies and some young
children occupied chairs within the railing."

When REAL was hanged, it was noticeable that a great number of women
appeared in the morbid crowd that surrounded the Tombs, many of them
with small children in their arms.

Fifth Avenue and Five Points! Six of one and half-a-dozen of the other!
Blood _will_ tell!

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE HAZARD OF THE HORSE-CARS.

THIS IS STUBBS, (_an incorrigible old bachelor_,) WHO TAKES AN OPEN CAB,
FOR GREENWOOD, AND IS COMPELLED TO DO THE WHOLE DISTANCE SO.

Illustration: AND THIS IS THE WAY IN WHICH DOBBS, WHO WOULD HAVE BEEN
DELIGHTED WITH STUBB'S LUCK, IS MADE TO SUFFER MARTYRDOM
 ON _his_
LITTLE EXCURSION]

 * * * * *

THE POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO V.

 "Let's go to bed," says Sleepy Head,
 "Tarry awhile," says Slow;
 "Put on the pot," says Greedy Gut,
 "We'll sup before we go."

These lines the observant student of nursery literature will perceive
are satirical. Was there ever a poet who was not satirical? How could he
be a genius and not be able to point out the folly he sees around him
and comment upon it. In this case, the poor poet,--who lived in a
roseate cloud-land of his own, not desiring such mundane things as sleep
and food, was undoubtedly troubled and plagued to death by having
brothers and sisters who were of the earth, earthy; and who never
neglected on opportunity to laugh at his poems; to squirt water on him
when in the heavenly mood, his eyes in frenzy rolling; to put spiders
down his back; to stick pins in his elbows when writing; or upset his
inkstand.

Fine natures always have a deal to bear, in this world, from the coarse,
unfeeling natures that cannot appreciate their delicacy; and this one
had more than his share.

Many a time has he been goaded to frenzy by the cruel sneers and jokes
of those who should have been proud of his talents; and rushed with
wild-eyed eagerness down to the gentle frog pond, intending there to
bury his sorrows beneath its glassy surface. He saw in imagination the
grief-stricken faces of those cruel ones as they gazed upon his cold
corpus, with his damp locks clinging to his noble brow, the green slimy
weeds clasped in his pale hands, and the mud oozing from his pockets and
the legs of his pants; and he gloried in the remorse and anguish they
would feel when they knew that the Poet of the family was gone forever.

All this he pictured as he stood on the bank, and, while thinking, the
desire to plunge in grew smaller by degrees and beautifully less, till
at last it vanished entirely, and he concluded he had better go home,
finish his book first and drown himself afterwards, if necessary. It
would make much more stir in the world, and his n
ame and works might
live forever.

A happy thought strikes him as he slowly meanders homeward. He would
have revenge. He would punish these wretches by handing down--to
posterity their peculiarities. He would put it in verse and have it
printed in his book, and then they'd see that even the gentle worm could
turn and sting.

Ah! blessed thought. He flies to his garret bedroom, seizes his
goose-quill and paper, and sits down. What shall he write about? He
nibbles the feather end of his pen, plunges the point into the ink,
looks at it intently to see if he has hooked up an idea, sees none, and
falls to nibbling again. Ah! now he has it. There is TOM, the
dunderhead, who is always sleepy and he will put that down about him.
Squaring his shoulders, he writes:

 "Let's go to bed," says Sleepy Head.

Gleefully he rubs his hands. Won't that cut TOM. Ah! Ha! I guess TOM
won't say much more about staring at the moon. Now for DICK, the old
stupid. What shall he say about him? The end of the pen diminishes
slowly but surely, and then he writes:

 "Tarry awhile," says Slow.

That will answer for DICK. Now let him give HARRY something scorching,
withering, and cutting--so that he'll never open his mouth again unless
it is to put something in it. Oh, that is it, he is always hungry--rub
him on that. He thinks intently. Determination shows in every line of
his face; the pen is almost gone only an inch remains, and then the Poet
masters his subject. He has got the last two lines.

 "Put on the pot," says Greedy Gut,
 "We'll sup before we go."

He throws down the stump of the pen and bounces up. His object in life
is accomplished; he is master of the situation, now, and holds the trump
card. See the quiet smile' and knowing look as he folds the paper up,
and thrusts it into his pocket. He is going down-stairs to read it to
the family. Now is the time for sweet revenge and for the overthrow of
those Philistines, his brothers. He descends slowly, like an avenging
angel, enters the room, and--gentle reader, imagine the rest.

 * * *
 * *

Masculine or Feminine?

It now seems that the new and terrible fagot-gun used in the French army
is to be spoken of in the feminine gender--_mitrailleuse_ instead of
_mitrailleur_, as hitherto spelt by correspondents. That a virago is
sometimes termed a "spit-fire" we all know, but that is hardly reason
enough to excuse the French for such a lapse of gallantry as calling a
thunderous and fatal implement of war by a soft feminine name. Let them
stick to _mitrailleur_. Yet we would not rashly throw the other word
away. _Mitrailleuse_ would be a capital acquisition to the English
language, and very handy for any man having a vixen of a wife, with no
nice pet name convenient with which to conciliate her.

 * * * * *

A Ridiculous Rub-a-dub.

A quiet gentleman who occupies lodgings immediately opposite one of the
city armories, writes to us asking whether the drum corps that practice
there two or three evenings in the week should not be supplied with
noiseless drums, as PUNCHINELLO has suggested regarding the street
organs. PUNCHINELLO thinks the suggestion a good one. He would like to
see the beating of drums after night-fall abolished altogether In fact,
it is the only kind of Dead Beat to which he would lend his countenance.

 * * * * *

A Clear Case.

Some wiseacre has been trying to demonstrate, through the public press,
that POE did not write "The Raven."

The man must be a Raven lunatic.

 * * * * *

THE BALLARD OF THE GOOD LITTLE BOY, AGED TEN, AND HIS BAD BROTHER.

An obituary notice of a boy, 10 years old, in _The Wilmington
Commercial_, contains the following statement: "In his dying moments he
charged his brother WILLIAM not to dance, or sing any more songs.
Funeral services preached by the Rev WM. R. TUBB."

 This pious Boy lay on his bed,
 A dying very fast;
 'Most every word this good Boy said,
 They thought 'twould be his last.

 The Reverend Mr. TUBB was there,
 A praying very slow;
 It was a solemn, sad affair;
 Twas plain the Boy must go.

 His brother WILLIAM:, he come o'er,
 To which this go
od Boy cried,
 "Oh, BILL, don't sing nor dance no more!"
 And following which he died.

 Now WILLIAM, he had learnt a song
 That pleased him very much:
 He didn't know that it was wrong
 To carol any such.

 He said he couldn't leave it go,
 Not if he was to die;
 And that same song, as all should know,
 Was called by him, "Shoo Fly."

 He was informed by Mr. TUBBS
 That he would fall down dead,
 Or else get killed by stones or clubs,
 With that thing in his head.

 But, such is life! Poor WILLIAM went
 And sung his Shoo Fly o'er:
 Not knowing that he would be sent
 Where Shoo Flies are no more,

 He was a singing, one wet day,
 And likewise dancing too,
 When lightning took his sole away--
 Let this warn me and you!

 * * * * *

HINTS FOR THE CENSUS.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: I have always been in favor of the Census, the system
is questionable, perhaps, though that depends on how you like it. I have
found that it answers very well where the parties are highly
intelligent-like myself, for example.

I drew up the following proclamation to read to the U.S. official in my
district:

_Q._ What is your name? _A_ SARSFIELD YOUNG. What is yours?

_Q._ What is your age? _A._ A., being asked how old he was, replied: If
I live as long again, and half as long again, and two years and a
half,--how old shall I be?

_Q._ Where is your residence? _A._ I live at home with the family, have
often thought that, amid pleasures and palaces, there is no place like
home, unless it be a boarding house with hot and cold water.

_Q._ What is your occupation? _A._ Taxpayer. This takes my whole time

_Q._ Where were you born? _A._ Having made no minute of it at the time,
it has passed out of my memory.

_Q._ What kind of a house do you live in? _A._ A mortgaged house,
painted flesh color, a front exposure, brick windows and a brass
lightning rod. A good deal of back yard, (and back rent,) to it.

_Q._ At what age did your grandfather die? _A._ If he died last night,
(I saw him yesterday at a horse race,) he was turning ninety-eight,
perhaps he go
t tipped over in the turn.

_Q._ Do you hold any official position: if so, what? _A._ Inspector of
fish,--every Friday.

_Q._ Are you insured? A. I am agent for half a dozen companies. So are
all my neighbors. My life is insured against fire for several thousands.

_Q._ Are you troubled with chilblains? _A._ Quitely. I soak my feet in
oil of vitriol.

_Q._ Were you in the war? _A._ I have the scar on my arm which I got in
the service. I was vaccinated severely, while clerk to a substitute
broker at Troy, N. Y.

_Q._ Are you a graduate of any College. _A._ Yes, of one. I forget which
one. I only remember that I was one of the most remarkable men they ever
turned out.

_Q._ Have you suffered from the potato rot? _A,_ Not myself. My uncle
had it bad. He found that whiskey and warm water was a very good thing.
I've made an independent discovery of the same fact, also.

_Q._ Are you in favor of Free Trade or Protection? _A_. I can only say
that, if elected, gentlemen, I shall endeavor to do my whole duty. I am.

_Q._ What do you think of deep plowing? _A._ In a scanty population, I
should say it has a bad effect. I can recommend it, however, in a sandy
soil, where school privileges are first-class.

_Q._ Does anything else occur to you which it is important for the
Government to know? _A._ Yes: a hay fever occurs to me regularly once a
year. I have no policy to enforce against the will of the people: Still
I would call the attention of the medicine-loving public to my friend
Dr. EZRA CUTLER'S "Noon-day Bitters." For ringing in the ears, loss of
memory, bankruptcy, teething, and general debility, they are without a
rival. No family should live more than five minutes walk from a bottle.
They gild the morning of youth, cherish manhood, and comfort old age,
with the name blown on the bottle in plain letters. Beware of
impositions--at all respectable druggists.

* * I believe in taking things easy, and I shall cheerfully assist the
Administration, when it calls at my door on Census business.

SARSFIELD YOUNG.

 * * * * *


Facilis Descensus

The daily papers frequently have articles respecting the "Hell Gate
Obstructions." We do not, however, remember having seen that subject
handled in the _Sun._ Perhaps it is that DANA and DYER, conscious of
their deserts, do not anticipate any obstructions in that quarter.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: ARISTOCRACY IN THE KITCHEN.

_Lady_, (responsively.) "THAT FASHIONABLY DRESSED WOMAN WHO HAS JUST
PASSED, DEAR? OH, THAT'S MY COOK, TAKING HER SUNDAY WITH THE GROCER'S
YOUNG MAN. SHE NEVER ACKNOWLEDGES ME ON SUCH OCCASIONS."]

 * * * * *

WHAT SHALL WE CALL IT?

Having made up my mind to become a novelist, I naturally studied the
productions of my predecessors, and found out, I assure you, in a very
brief period of time, the little tricks of the trade. As I do not wish
to have the business flooded with neophytes, I refrain from informing
your readers how every man can become his own novel writer. One very
curious thing, however, which I discovered, I will here relate.

I was very much puzzled by the curious titles which novelists selected
for their books, and very much annoyed by my inability to discover where
they picked them up. I persevered, however, and discovered that they
found them in the daily papers. In fact, I shrewdly suspect that I have
discovered, in these veracious sheets, the very incidents which
suggested the names of a number of volumes. Let me place before you the
extracts, which I have culled from the papers.

_"Put Yourself in his Place."_--READE.

"Yesterday morning an unknown man was found hanging from the limbs of a
tree in JONES' Wood. He was quite dead when discovered."

_"Red as a Rose is She."_

"Bridget Flynn was arrested for vagrancy. When brought before the Court
she was quite drunk. She had evidently been a hard drinker for years, as
her face was of a brilliant carmine color."

_"Man and Wife."_ COLLINS.

"Married.--At Salt Lake City, on the 1st day of August, 1870, BRIGHAM
YOUNG, Esq., to Miss LETITIA BLACK, Mrs. SUSAN BROWN and Miss JENNIE
SMITH."

_"What will he do 
with it?"_ BULWER.

"It is stated by the police authorities, that the description of Mr.
NATHAN'S watch has been spread so widely, that the robber will be unable
to dispose of it to any jeweler or pawnbroker."

_"Our Mutual Friend"_--DICKENS.

"England is supplying both France and Prussia with horses."

_"John."_--Mrs. OLIPHANT.

"Mr. SAMPSON has sent to California for another cargo of Chinese
shoemakers."

_"Friends in Council."_--HELPS.

"Mr. Drew and Mr. Fisk were closeted together for more than an hour
yesterday."

_"A Tale of Two Cities."_--DICKENS.

"The census will show that our city has a population of at least
500,000."--_Chicago paper._

"St Louis has undoubtedly a population of 400,000."--_St. Louis paper._

"Chicago, 300,000; St. Louis, 190,000."--_Census returns._

_"Stern Necessity."_--F.W. ROBINSON.

"It is stated that a well-known yacht failed to win the prize in the
late race, because her rudder slipped out of her fastenings and was
lost."

 * * * * *

ITEMS FROM OUR RURAL REPORTERS.

A German farmer, living not one hundred miles from Cincinnati, is
raising trichinated pork for the supply of the French army.

The artist who drew the Newfoundland dog (out of the water,) at Newport,
R.I., has received a medal from the Royal Humane Society of England, on
condition that he will not Meddle with dogs any more.

Near Ashland, in Virginia, a spring has been discovered that runs
chicken soup. So great was the commotion in culinary arrangements, when
the discovery was made public, that "the dish ran after the spoon."

The curious crustacean known as the "fiddler crab" is unusually numerous
in the marshes of Long Island, this summer. It differs from impecunious
persons inasmuch as it is a burrowing, not a borrowing, creature. It
differs from ordinary fiddlers by two letters, in that it bores the
earth, but not the ear.

It is an established fact that persona who sleep on mattresses stuffed
with pigeon's feathers never die. Near Salem, Mass., there is now a
woman nearly two hundred years old, who has been be
d-ridden and confined
to a pigeon-feather bed for one hundred and fifty years. One of her
descendants a shrewd man-has discovered that the pigeon feathers are
growing musty, and proposes to replace them with the plumage of geese.

There is a wild man at large in the woods of Sullivan County, N.Y. He
was once a fast man of New York City, and is so fast, still, that nobody
can catch him.

A gentleman residing in the vicinity of Glen Cove had a Newfoundland dog
that was very expert at catching lobsters. The faithful animal has been
missing for some time, but a clue to its fate was yesterday obtained by
its owner, who found the brass collar of the dog inside a large lobster
with which he was about to construct a salad.

An English nobleman has taken up his residence in the centre of the
Dismal Swamp, Va. Blighted affections are supposed to be the cause of
his trouble, as he always wears at the top buttonhole of his coat a
_chignon_ made of red hair.

 * * * * *

"That's what's the Matter."

Among the lectures announced for the coming season is Mrs. CECILIA
BURLEIGH'S "Woman's right to be a Woman." We quite agree with Mrs.
BURLEIGH'S remark. Woman _is_ right to be a woman, but the matter just
now is that woman wants to be a man.

 * * * * *

Couplet from a Shaker Song.

 O! Mr. President, you'll have to keep on pegging
 At this English Mission, which seems to go a-begging.
 Hi! yi! yi! etc.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Extraordinary Bargains. |
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Respectfully call the attention of their Customers and |
 | Strangers to their attractive Stock |
 | |
 | OF |
 | |
 | SUMMER AND FALL |
 | |
 | DRESS SILKS, |
 | |
 | At popular prices. |
 | |
 | Striped, Checked and Chine |
 | |
 | SILKS, |
 | |
 | In great variety, $1 to $2 per yard; |
 | value $1.50 to $3 |
 | |
 | PLAIN FOULARD, |
 | |
 | $1.50, value $2 per yard. |
 | 24 inch Black and White |
 | Striped $1.75; value $2.50. |
 | |
 | STRIPED SATINS, |
 | |
 | $1.25; value $2. |
 | |
 | Pla
in and Striped Japanese, |
 | |
 | 75c. and $1 per yard. |
 | |
 | Rich White and Dress Satins, |
 | |
 | Extra Quality. |
 | |
 | A CHOICE LINE OF |
 | |
 | PLAIN GRAINS, |
 | |
 | for Evening and Street, $2.50 to $3; |
 | value $3 to $3.50 per yard. |
 | |
 | A FEW EXTRA RICH |
 | |
 | SATIN BROCADE SILKS, AMERICAN SILKS, |
 | |
 | Black and , $2. |
 | |
 | JOB LOT OF MEDIUM AND RICH |
 | |
 | SILKS. |
 | |
 | GREAT BARGAINS. |
 | |
 | A COMPLETE STOCK |
 | |
 | BLACK SILKS, |
 | |
 | At popular prices. |
 | |
 | PLAIN AND STRIPED |
 | |
 | GAZE DE CHAMBREY, |
 | |
 | Alexandre Best Kid Gloves, &c., &c. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Are offering several lots of |
 | |
 | HOUSEKEEPING GOODS |
 | |
 | MUCH BELOW |
 | |
 | COST OF IMPORTATION. |
 | |
 | 5-8 and 3-4 Single and Double DAMASK |
 | NAPKINS, from $1 to $3.50 per doz. |
 | |
 | DAMASK TABLE CLOTHS, all sizes, from |
 | $1.50 to $2.75 each. |
 | |
 | Brown and Bleached TABLE DAMASK, all |
 | linen, from 40 to 75c. per yard. |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETING, from 60 to 90c. per |
 | yard. |
 | |
 | PILLOW LINENS, from 30 to 70c. per yard |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETS, for Single and Double Beds, |
 | at $2.5O and upward. |
 | |
 | Fringed HUCKABACK TOWELS, $1 |
 | per doz. and upward. |
 | |
 | Bleached HUCKABACK TOWELS, 12 1-2 |
 | per yard and upward. |
 | |
 | Excellent Kitchen Towelling. In 25 yard |
 | pieces, $3.25 per piece. |
 | |
 | Several Hundred pieces Linen Nursery |
 | Diapers, various widths, at $1 per piece |
 | below Current prices. |
 | |
 | MARSEILLES |
 | |
 | QUILTS AND BLANKETS, |
 | |
 | AT LOW PRICES. |
 | |
 | Attention of House and Hotel Keepers is invited |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was iss
ued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of the kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | " " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00 |
 | Single copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 by 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-5/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens; |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | Pointer and Quail; Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; The Unconscious Sleeper; The Two |
 | Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-3/4. |
 | Spring; Summer: Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. 11 x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13x18. |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9-1/8 x 4-1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and Six American Landscapes. |
 | (A set.) 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 |
 Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter, in |
 | advance; the CHROMOS will be mailed free on receipt of |
 | money. |
 | |
 | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be |
 | given. For special terms address the Company. |
 | |
 | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of |
 | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A |
 | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or |
 | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: CROCODILE TEARS.]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "The Printing House of the United States." |
 | |
 | GEO. F. NESBITT & CO., |
 | |
 | General JOB PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | BLANK BOOK Manufacturers, |
 | STATIONERS, Wholesale and Retail, |
 | LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers. |
 | COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers, |
 | CARD Manufacturers, |
 | ENVELOPE Manufacturers, |
 | FINE CUT and COLOR Printers. |
 | |
 | 163, 165, 167, and 169 PEARL ST., |
 | 73, 75, 77, and 79 PINE ST., New York. |
 | |
 | ADVANTAGES. All on the same premises, and under |
 | immediate supervision of the proprietors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Tourists and Pleasure Travelers |
 | |
 | will be glad to learn that that the Erie Railway Company has |
 | prepared. |
 | |
 | COMBINATI
ON EXCURSION |
 | |
 | OR |
 | |
 | Round Trip Tickets, |
 | |
 | Valid during the entire season, and embracing |
 | Ithaca--headwaters of Cayuga Lake--Niagara Falls, Lake |
 | Ontario, the River St. Lawrence, Montreal, Quebec, Lake |
 | Champlain, Lake George, Saratoga, the White Mountains, and |
 | all principal points of interest in Northern New York, the |
 | Canadas, and New England. Also similar Tickets at reduced |
 | rates, through Lake Superior, enabling travelers to visit |
 | the celebrated Iron Mountains and Copper Mines of that |
 | region. By applying at the Offices of the Erie Railway Co., |
 | Nos. 241, 529 and 957 Broadway; 205 Chambers St.; 38 |
 | Greenwich St.; cor. 125th St. and Third Avenue Harlem; 338 |
 | Fulton St. Brooklyn; Depots foot of Chambers Street, and |
 | foot of 23rd St, New York; No. 3 Exchange Place, and Long |
 | Dock Depot, Jersey City, and the Agents at the principal |
 | hotels, travelers can obtain just the Ticket they desire, as |
 | well as all the necessary information. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PRANG'S LATEST PUBLICATIONS: "Wild Flowers," |
 | "Water-Lilies," "Chas. Dickens." |
 | |
 | PRANG'S CHROMOS sold in all Art Stores throughout the |
 | world. |
 | |
 | PRANG'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE sent free on receipt of |
 | stamp. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | With a large and varied experience in the management |
 | and publication of a paper of the class herewith submitted, |
 | and with the still more positive advantage of an Ample |
 | Capital to justify the undertaking, the |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO. |
 | |
 | OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, |
 | |
 | Presents to the public for approval, the new |
 | |
 | ILLUSTRATED HUMOROUS AND SATIRICAL |
 | |
 | WEEKLY PAPER, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO, |
 | |
 | The first number of which was issued under |
 | date of April 2. |
 | |
 | ORIGINAL ARTICLES, |
 | |
 | Suitable for the paper, and Original Desi
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Clytie Siddall, Charles Aldarondo, Keren Vergon
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

 THE

 COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS

 OF

 EDGAR ALLAN POE

 BY JOHN H. INGRAM

PREFACE.

In placing before the public this collection of Edgar Poe's poetical
works, it is requisite to point out in what respects it differs from,
and is superior to, the numerous collections which have preceded it.
Until recently, all editions, whether American or English, of Poe's
poems have been 'verbatim' reprints of the first posthumous collection,
published at New York in 1850.

In 1874 I began drawing attention to the fact that unknown and
unreprinted poetry by Edgar Poe was in existence. Most, if not all, of
the specimens issued in my articles have since been reprinted by
different editors and publishers, but the present is the first occasion
on which all the pieces referred to have been garnered into one sheaf.
Besides the poems thus alluded to, this volume will be found to contain
many additional pieces and extra stanzas, nowhere else published or
included in Poe's works. Such verses have been gathered from printed or
manuscript sources during a research extending over many years.

In addition to the new poetical matter included in this volume,
attention should, also, be solicited on behalf of the notes, which will
be found to contain much matter, interesting both from biographical and
bibliographical points of view.

JOHN H. INGRAM.

CONTENTS.

MEMOIR

POEMS OF LATER LIFE:
 Dedication
 Preface
 The Raven
 The Bells
 Ulalume
 To Helen
 Annabel Lee
 A Valentine
 An Enigma
 To my Mother
 For Annie
 To F----
 To Frances S. Osgood
 Eldorado
 Eulalie
 A Dream within a Dream
 To Marie Louise (Shew)
 To the Same
 The City in the Sea
 The Sleeper,
 Bridal Ballad
Notes

POEMS OF MANHOOD:
 Lenore
 To one in Paradise
 The Coliseum
 The Haunted Palace
 The Conqueror Worm
 Silence
 Dreamland
 To Zante
 Hymn
Notes

SCENES FROM "POLITIAN"
Note

POEMS OF YOUTH:
 Introduction (1831)
 To Science
 Al Aaraaf
 Tamerlane
 To Helen
 The Valley o
f Unrest
 Israfel
 To----("I heed not that my earthly lot")
 To----("The bowers whereat, in dreams, I see")
 To the River----
 Song
 Spirits of the Dead
 A Dream
 Romance
 Fairyland
 The Lake
 Evening Star
 Imitation
 "The Happiest Day,"
 Hymn. Translation from the Greek
 Dreams
 "In Youth I have known one"
 A Paean
Notes

DOUBTFUL POEMS:
 Alone
 To Isadore
 The Village Street
 The Forest Reverie
Notes

PROSE POEMS:
 The Island of the Fay
 The Power of Words
 The Colloquy of Monos and Una
 The Conversation of Eiros and Charmion
 Shadow--A Parable
 Silence--A Fable

ESSAYS:
 The Poetic Principle
 The Philosophy of Composition
 Old English Poetry

MEMOIR OF EDGAR ALLAN POE.

During the last few years every incident in the life of Edgar Poe has
been subjected to microscopic investigation. The result has not been
altogether satisfactory. On the one hand, envy and prejudice have
magnified every blemish of his character into crime, whilst on the
other, blind admiration would depict him as far "too good for human
nature's daily food." Let us endeavor to judge him impartially, granting
that he was as a mortal subject to the ordinary weaknesses of mortality,
but that he was tempted sorely, treated badly, and suffered deeply.

The poet's ancestry and parentage are chiefly interesting as explaining
some of the complexities of his character. His father, David Poe, was of
Anglo-Irish extraction. Educated for the Bar, he elected to abandon it
for the stage. In one of his tours through the chief towns of the United
States he met and married a young actress, Elizabeth Arnold, member of
an English family distinguished for its musical talents. As an actress,
Elizabeth Poe acquired some reputation, but became even better known for
her domestic virtues. In those days the United States afforded little
scope for dramatic energy, so it is not surprising to find that when her
husband died, after a few years of married life, the young widow had a
vain struggle to maintain herself and three little ones, William Henry,
Edgar, and Rosalie. 
Before her premature death, in December, 1811, the
poet's mother had been reduced to the dire necessity of living on the
charity of her neighbors.

Edgar, the second child of David and Elizabeth Poe, was born at Boston,
in the United States, on the 19th of January, 1809. Upon his mother's
death at Richmond, Virginia, Edgar was adopted by a wealthy Scotch
merchant, John Allan. Mr. Allan, who had married an American lady and
settled in Virginia, was childless. He therefore took naturally to the
brilliant and beautiful little boy, treated him as his son, and made him
take his own surname. Edgar Allan, as he was now styled, after some
elementary tuition in Richmond, was taken to England by his adopted
parents, and, in 1816, placed at the Manor House School,
Stoke-Newington.

Under the Rev. Dr. Bransby, the future poet spent a lustrum of his life
neither unprofitably nor, apparently, ungenially. Dr. Bransby, who is
himself so quaintly portrayed in Poe's tale of 'William Wilson',
described "Edgar Allan," by which name only he knew the lad, as "a quick
and clever boy," who "would have been a very good boy had he not been
spoilt by his parents," meaning, of course, the Allans. They "allowed
him an extravagant amount of pocket-money, which enabled him to get into
all manner of mischief. Still I liked the boy," added the tutor, "but,
poor fellow, his parents spoiled him."

Poe has described some aspects of his school days in his oft cited story
of 'William Wilson'. Probably there is the usual amount of poetic
exaggeration in these reminiscences, but they are almost the only record
we have of that portion of his career and, therefore, apart from their
literary merits, are on that account deeply interesting. The description
of the sleepy old London suburb, as it was in those days, is remarkably
accurate, but the revisions which the story of 'William Wilson' went
through before it reached its present perfect state caused many of the
author's details to deviate widely from their original correctness. His
schoolhouse in the ear
liest draft was truthfully described as an "old,
irregular, and cottage-built" dwelling, and so it remained until its
destruction a few years ago.

The 'soi-disant' William Wilson, referring to those bygone happy days
spent in the English academy, says,

 "The teeming brain of childhood requires no external world of incident
 to occupy or amuse it. The morning's awakening, the nightly summons to
 bed; the connings, the recitations, the periodical half-holidays and
 perambulations, the playground, with its broils, its pastimes, its
 intrigues--these, by a mental sorcery long forgotten, were made to
 involve a wilderness of sensation, a world of rich incident, a
 universe of varied emotion, of excitement the most passionate and
 spirit-stirring, _'Oh, le bon temps, que ce siecle de fer!'"_

From this world of boyish imagination Poe was called to his adopted
parents' home in the United States. He returned to America in 1821, and
was speedily placed in an academy in Richmond, Virginia, in which city
the Allans continued to reside. Already well grounded in the elementary
processes of education, not without reputation on account of his
European residence, handsome, proud, and regarded as the heir of a
wealthy man, Poe must have been looked up to with no little respect by
his fellow pupils. He speedily made himself a prominent position in the
school, not only by his classical attainments, but by his athletic
feats--accomplishments calculated to render him a leader among lads.

 "In the simple school athletics of those days, when a gymnasium had
 not been heard of, he was 'facile princeps',"

is the reminiscence of his fellow pupil, Colonel T. L. Preston. Poe he
remembers as

 "a swift runner, a wonderful leaper, and, what was more rare, a boxer,
 with some slight training.... He would allow the strongest boy in the
 school to strike him with full force in the chest. He taught me the
 secret, and I imitated him, after my measure. It was to inflate the
 lungs to the uttermost, and at the moment of receiving the blow to
 e
xhale the air. It looked surprising, and was, indeed, a little rough;
 but with a good breast-bone, and some resolution, it was not difficult
 to stand it. For swimming he was noted, being in many of his athletic
 proclivities surprisingly like Byron in his youth."

In one of his feats Poe only came off second best.

 "A challenge to a foot race," says Colonel Preston, "had been passed
 between the two classical schools of the city; we selected Poe as our
 champion. The race came off one bright May morning at sunrise, in the
 Capitol Square. Historical truth compels me to add that on this
 occasion our school was beaten, and we had to pay up our small bets.
 Poe ran well, but his competitor was a long-legged, Indian-looking
 fellow, who would have outstripped Atalanta without the help of the
 golden apples."

 "In our Latin exercises in school," continues the colonel, "Poe was
 among the first--not first without dispute. We had competitors who
 fairly disputed the palm, especially one, Nat Howard, afterwards known
 as one of the ripest scholars in Virginia, and distinguished also as a
 profound lawyer. If Howard was less brilliant than Poe, he was far
 more studious; for even then the germs of waywardness were developing
 in the nascent poet, and even then no inconsiderable portion of his
 time was given to versifying. But if I put Howard as a Latinist on a
 level with Poe, I do him full justice."

 "Poe," says the colonel, "was very fond of the Odes of Horace, and
 repeated them so often in my hearing that I learned by sound the words
 of many before I understood their meaning. In the lilting rhythm of
 the Sapphics and Iambics, his ear, as yet untutored in more
 complicated harmonies, took special delight. Two odes, in particular,
 have been humming in my ear all my life since, set to the tune of his
 recitation:

 _'Jam satis terris nivis atque dirce
 Grandinis misit Pater, et rubente,'_

 And

 _'Non ebur neque aureum
 Mea renidet in dono lacu ar,_' etc.

 "I remember that Poe was also a very fine French scho
lar. Yet, with
 all his superiorities, he was not the master spirit nor even the
 favorite of the school. I assign, from my recollection, this place to
 Howard. Poe, as I recall my impressions now, was self-willed,
 capricious, inclined to be imperious, and, though of generous
 impulses, not steadily kind, nor even amiable; and so what he would
 exact was refused to him. I add another thing which had its influence,
 I am sure. At the time of which I speak, Richmond was one of the most
 aristocratic cities on this side of the Atlantic.... A school is, of
 its nature, democratic; but still boys will unconsciously bear about
 the odor of their fathers' notions, good or bad. Of Edgar Poe," who
 had then resumed his parental cognomen, "it was known that his parents
 had been players, and that he was dependent upon the bounty that is
 bestowed upon an adopted son. All this had the effect of making the
 boys decline his leadership; and, on looking back on it since, I fancy
 it gave him a fierceness he would otherwise not have had."

This last paragraph of Colonel Preston's recollections cast a suggestive
light upon the causes which rendered unhappy the lad's early life and
tended to blight his prospective hopes. Although mixing with members of
the best families of the province, and naturally endowed with hereditary
and native pride,--fostered by the indulgence of wealth and the
consciousness of intellectual superiority,--Edgar Poe was made to feel
that his parentage was obscure, and that he himself was dependent upon
the charity and caprice of an alien by blood. For many lads these things
would have had but little meaning, but to one of Poe's proud temperament
it must have been a source of constant torment, and all allusions to it
gall and wormwood. And Mr. Allan was not the man to wean Poe from such
festering fancies: as a rule he was proud of the handsome and talented
boy, and indulged him in all that wealth could purchase, but at other
times he treated him with contumely, and made him feel the bitterness of
his posit
ion.

Still Poe did maintain his leading position among the scholars at that
Virginian academy, and several still living have favored us with
reminiscences of him. His feats in swimming to which Colonel Preston has
alluded, are quite a feature of his youthful career. Colonel Mayo
records one daring performance in natation which is thoroughly
characteristic of the lad. One day in mid-winter, when standing on the
banks of the James River, Poe dared his comrade into jumping in, in
order to swim to a certain point with him. After floundering about in
the nearly frozen stream for some time, they reached the piles upon
which Mayo's Bridge was then supported, and there attempted to rest and
try to gain the shore by climbing up the log abutment to the bridge.
Upon reaching the bridge, however, they were dismayed to find that its
plank flooring overlapped the abutment by several feet, and that it was
impossible to ascend it. Nothing remained for them but to let go their
slippery hold and swim back to the shore. Poe reached the bank in an
exhausted and benumbed condition, whilst Mayo was rescued by a boat just
as he was succumbing. On getting ashore Poe was seized with a violent
attack of vomiting, and both lads were ill for several weeks.

Alluding to another quite famous swimming feat of his own, the poet
remarked, "Any 'swimmer in the falls' in my days would have swum the
Hellespont, and thought nothing of the matter. I swam from Ludlam's
Wharf to Warwick (six miles), in a hot June sun, against one of the
strongest tides ever known in the river. It would have been a feat
comparatively easy to swim twenty miles in still water. I would not
think much," Poe added in a strain of exaggeration not unusual with him,
"of attempting to swim the British Channel from Dover to Calais."
Colonel Mayo, who had tried to accompany him in this performance, had to
stop on the way, and says that Poe, when he reached the goal, emerged
from the water with neck, face, and back blistered. The facts of this
feat, which was undertaken for a wage
r, having been questioned, Poe,
ever intolerant of contradiction, obtained and published the affidavits
of several gentlemen who had witnessed it. They also certified that Poe
did not seem at all fatigued, and that he walked back to Richmond
immediately after the performance.

The poet is generally remembered at this part of his career to have been
slight in figure and person, but to have been well made, active, sinewy,
and graceful. Despite the fact that he was thus noted among his
schoolfellows and indulged at home, he does not appear to have been in
sympathy with his surroundings. Already dowered with the "hate of hate,
the scorn of scorn," he appears to have made foes both among those who
envied him and those whom, in the pride of intellectuality, he treated
with pugnacious contempt. Beneath the haughty exterior, however, was a
warm and passionate heart, which only needed circumstance to call forth
an almost fanatical intensity of affection. A well-authenticated
instance of this is thus related by Mrs. Whitman:

 "While at the academy in Richmond, he one day accompanied a schoolmate
 to his home, where he saw, for the first time, Mrs. Helen Stannard,
 the mother of his young friend. This lady, on entering the room, took
 his hands and spoke some gentle and gracious words of welcome, which
 so penetrated the sensitive heart of the orphan boy as to deprive him
 of the power of speech, and for a time almost of consciousness itself.
 He returned home in a dream, with but one thought, one hope in life
 --to hear again the sweet and gracious words that had made the
 desolate world so beautiful to him, and filled his lonely heart with
 the oppression of a new joy. This lady afterwards became the confidant
 of all his boyish sorrows, and hers was the one redeeming influence
 that saved and guided him in the earlier days of his turbulent and
 passionate youth."

When Edgar was unhappy at home, which, says his aunt, Mrs. Clemm, "was
very often the case, he went to Mrs. Stannard for sympathy, for
consolation, and for ad
vice." Unfortunately, the sad fortune which so
frequently thwarted his hopes ended this friendship. The lady was
overwhelmed by a terrible calamity, and at the period when her guiding
voice was most requisite, she fell a prey to mental alienation. She
died, and was entombed in a neighboring cemetery, but her poor boyish
admirer could not endure to think of her lying lonely and forsaken in
her vaulted home, so he would leave the house at night and visit her
tomb. When the nights were drear, "when the autumnal rains fell, and the
winds wailed mournfully over the graves, he lingered longest, and came
away most regretfully."

The memory of this lady, of this "one idolatrous and purely ideal love"
of his boyhood, was cherished to the last. The name of Helen frequently
recurs in his youthful verses, "The Paean," now first included in his
poetical works, refers to her; and to her he inscribed the classic and
exquisitely beautiful stanzas beginning "Helen, thy beauty is to me."

Another important item to be noted in this epoch of his life is that he
was already a poet. Among his schoolfellows he appears to have acquired
some little reputation as a writer of satirical verses; but of his
poetry, of that which, as he declared, had been with him "not a purpose,
but a passion," he probably preserved the secret, especially as we know
that at his adoptive home poesy was a forbidden thing. As early as 1821
he appears to have essayed various pieces, and some of these were
ultimately included in his first volume. With Poe poetry was a personal
matter--a channel through which the turbulent passions of his heart
found an outlet. With feelings such as were his, it came to pass, as a
matter of course, that the youthful poet fell in love. His first affair
of the heart is, doubtless, reminiscently portrayed in what he says of
his boyish ideal, Byron. This passion, he remarks, "if passion it can
properly be called, was of the most thoroughly romantic, shadowy, and
imaginative character. It was born of the hour, and of the youthful
necess
ity to love. It had no peculiar regard to the person, or to the
character, or to the reciprocating affection... Any maiden, not
immediately and positively repulsive," he deems would have suited the
occasion of frequent and unrestricted intercourse with such an
imaginative and poetic youth. "The result," he deems, "was not merely
natural, or merely probable; it was as inevitable as destiny itself."

Between the lines may be read the history of his own love. "The Egeria
of _his_ dreams--the Venus Aphrodite that sprang in full and supernal
loveliness from the bright foam upon the storm-tormented ocean of _his_
thoughts," was a little girl, Elmira Royster, who lived with her father
in a house opposite to the Allans in Richmond. The young people met
again and again, and the lady, who has only recently passed away,
recalled Edgar as "a beautiful boy," passionately fond of music,
enthusiastic and impulsive, but with prejudices already strongly
developed. A certain amount of love-making took place between the young
people, and Poe, with his usual passionate energy, ere he left home for
the University had persuaded his fair inamorata to engage herself to
him. Poe left home for the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, in
the beginning of 1825. lie wrote frequently to Miss Royster, but her
father did not approve of the affair, and, so the story runs,
intercepted the correspondence, until it ceased. At seventeen, Elmira
became the bride of a Mr. Shelton, and it was not until some time
afterwards that Poe discovered how it was his passionate appeals had
failed to elicit any response from the object of his youthful affection.

Poe's short university career was in many respects a repetition of his
course at the Richmond Academy. He became noted at Charlottesville both
for his athletic feats and his scholastic successes. He entered as a
student on February 1,1826, and remained till the close of the second
session in December of that year.

 "He entered the schools of ancient and modern languages, attending the
 lectures on L
atin, Greek, French, Spanish, and Italian. I was a member
 of the last three classes," says Mr. William Wertenbaker, the recently
 deceased librarian, "and can testify that he was tolerably regular in
 his attendance, and a successful student, having obtained distinction
 at the final examination in Latin and French, and this was at that
 time the highest honor a student could obtain. The present regulations
 in regard to degrees had not then been adopted. Under existing
 regulations, he would have graduated in the two languages above-named,
 and have been entitled to diplomas."

These statements of Poe's classmate are confirmed by Dr. Harrison,
chairman of the Faculty, who remarks that the poet was a great favorite
with his fellow-students, and was noted for the remarkable rapidity with
which he prepared his recitations and for their accuracy, his
translations from the modern languages being especially noteworthy.

Several of Poe's classmates at Charlottesville have testified to his
"noble qualities" and other good endowments, but they remember that his
"disposition was rather retiring, and that he had few intimate
associates." Mr. Thomas Boiling, one of his fellow-students who has
favored us with reminiscences of him, says:

 "I was 'acquainted', with him, but that is about all. My impression
 was, and is, that no one could say that he 'knew' him. He wore a
 melancholy face always, and even his smile--for I do not ever remember
 to have seen him laugh--seemed to be forced. When he engaged
 sometimes with others in athletic exercises, in which, so far as high
 or long jumping, I believe he excelled all the rest, Poe, with the
 same ever sad face, appeared to participate in what was amusement to
 the others more as a task than sport."

Poe had no little talent for drawing, and Mr. John Willis states that
the walls of his college rooms were covered with his crayon sketches,
whilst Mr. Boiling mentions, in connection with the poet's artistic
facility, some interesting incidents. The two young men had purchased
copi
es of a handsomely-illustrated edition of Byron's poems, and upon
visiting Poe a few days after this purchase, Mr. Bolling found him
engaged in copying one of the engravings with crayon upon his dormitory
ceiling. He continued to amuse himself in this way from time to time
until he had filled all the space in his room with life-size figures
which, it is remembered by those who saw them, were highly ornamental
and well executed.

As Mr. Bolling talked with his associate, Poe would continue to scribble
away with his pencil, as if writing, and when his visitor jestingly
remonstrated with him on his want of politeness, he replied that he had
been all attention, and proved that he had by suitable comment,
assigning as a reason for his apparent want of courtesy that he was
trying 'to divide his mind,' to carry on a conversation and write
sensibly upon a totally different subject at the same time.

Mr. Wertenbaker, in his interesting reminiscences of the poet, says:

 "As librarian I had frequent official intercourse with Poe, but it was
 at or near the close of the session before I met him in the social
 circle. After spending an evening together at a private house he
 invited me, on our return, into his room. It was a cold night in
 December, and his fire having gone pretty nearly out, by the aid of
 some tallow candles, and the fragments of a small table which he broke
 up for the purpose, he soon rekindled it, and by its comfortable blaze
 I spent a very pleasant hour with him. On this occasion he spoke with
 regret of the large amount of money he had wasted, and of the debts he
 had contracted during the session. If my memory be not at fault, he
 estimated his indebtedness at $2,000 and, though they were gaming
 debts, he was earnest and emphatic in the declaration that he was
 bound by honor to pay them at the earliest opportunity."

This appears to have been Poe's last night at the university. He left it
never to return, yet, short as was his sojourn there, he left behind him
such honorable memories that his 'alm
a mater' is now only too proud to
enrol his name among her most respected sons. Poe's adopted father,
however, did not regard his 'protege's' collegiate career with equal
pleasure: whatever view he may have entertained of the lad's scholastic
successes, he resolutely refused to discharge the gambling debts which,
like too many of his classmates, he had incurred. A violent altercation
took place between Mr. Allan and the youth, and Poe hastily quitted the
shelter of home to try and make his way in the world alone.

Taking with him such poems as he had ready, Poe made his way to Boston,
and there looked up some of his mother's old theatrical friends. Whether
he thought of adopting the stage as a profession, or whether he thought
of getting their assistance towards helping him to put a drama of his
own upon the stage,--that dream of all young authors,--is now unknown.
He appears to have wandered about for some time, and by some means or
the other succeeded in getting a little volume of poems printed "for
private circulation only." This was towards the end of 1827, when he was
nearing nineteen. Doubtless Poe expected to dispose of his volume by
subscription among his friends, but copies did not go off, and
ultimately the book was suppressed, and the remainder of the edition,
for "reasons of a private nature," destroyed.

What happened to the young poet, and how he contrived to exist for the
next year or so, is a mystery still unsolved. It has always been
believed that he found his way to Europe and met with some curious
adventures there, and Poe himself certainly alleged that such was the
case. Numbers of mythical stories have been invented to account for this
chasm in the poet's life, and most of them self-evidently fabulous. In a
recent biography of Poe an attempt had been made to prove that he
enlisted in the army under an assumed name, and served for about
eighteen months in the artillery in a highly creditable manner,
receiving an honorable discharge at the instance of Mr. Allan. This
account is plausible, but w
ill need further explanation of its many
discrepancies of dates, and verification of the different documents
cited in proof of it, before the public can receive it as fact. So many
fables have been published about Poe, and even many fictitious documents
quoted, that it behoves the unprejudiced to be wary in accepting any new
statements concerning him that are not thoroughly authenticated.

On the 28th February, 1829, Mrs. Allan died, and with her death the
final thread that had bound Poe to her husband was broken. The adopted
son arrived too late to take a last farewell of her whose influence had
given the Allan residence its only claim upon the poet's heart. A kind
of truce was patched up over the grave of the deceased lady, but, for
the future, Poe found that home was home no longer.

Again the young man turned to poetry, not only as a solace but as a
means of earning a livelihood. Again he printed a little volume of
poems, which included his longest piece, "Al Aaraaf," and several others
now deemed classic. The book was a great advance upon his previous
collection, but failed to obtain any amount of public praise or personal
profit for its author.

Feeling the difficulty of living by literature at the same time that he
saw he might have to rely largely upon his own exertions for a
livelihood, Poe expressed a wish to enter the army. After no little
difficulty a cadetship was obtained for him at the West Point Military
Academy, a military school in many respects equal to the best in Europe
for the education of officers for the army. At the time Poe entered the
Academy it possessed anything but an attractive character, the
discipline having been of the most severe character, and the
accommodation in many respects unsuitable for growing lads.

The poet appears to have entered upon this new course of life with his
usual enthusiasm, and for a time to have borne the rigid rules of the
place with unusual steadiness. He entered the institution on the 1st
July, 1830, and by the following March had been expelled for dete
rmined
disobedience. Whatever view may be taken of Poe's conduct upon this
occasion, it must be seen that the expulsion from West Point was of his
own seeking. Highly- pictures have been drawn of his eccentric
behavior at the Academy, but the fact remains that he wilfully, or at
any rate purposely, flung away his cadetship. It is surmised with
plausibility that the second marriage of Mr. Allan, and his expressed
intention of withdrawing his help and of not endowing or bequeathing
this adopted son any of his property, was the mainspring of Poe's
action. Believing it impossible to continue without aid in a profession
so expensive as was a military life, he determined to relinquish it and
return to his long cherished attempt to become an author.

Expelled from the institution that afforded board and shelter, and
discarded by his former protector, the unfortunate and penniless young
man yet a third time attempted to get a start in the world of letters by
means of a volume of poetry. If it be true, as alleged, that several of
his brother cadets aided his efforts by subscribing for his little work,
there is some possibility that a few dollars rewarded this latest
venture. Whatever may have resulted from the alleged aid, it is certain
that in a short time after leaving the Military Academy Poe was reduced
to sad straits. He disappeared for nearly two years from public notice,
and how he lived during that period has never been satisfactorily
explained. In 1833 he returns to history in the character of a winner of
a hundred-dollar award offered by a newspaper for the best story.

The prize was unanimously adjudged to Poe by the adjudicators, and Mr.
Kennedy, an author of some little repute, having become interested by
the young man's evident genius, generously assisted him towards
obtaining a livelihood by literary labor. Through his new friend's
introduction to the proprietor of the 'Southern Literary Messenger', a
moribund magazine published at irregular intervals, Poe became first a
paid contributor, and eventually the
 editor of the publication, which
ultimately he rendered one of the most respected and profitable
periodicals of the day. This success was entirely due to the brilliancy
and power of Poe's own contributions to the magazine.

In March, 1834, Mr. Allan died, and if our poet had maintained any hopes
of further assistance from him, all doubt was settled by the will, by
which the whole property of the deceased was left to his second wife and
her three sons. Poe was not named.

On the 6th May, 1836, Poe, who now had nothing but his pen to trust to,
married his cousin, Virginia Clemm, a child of only fourteen, and with
her mother as housekeeper, started a home of his own. In the meantime
his various writings in the 'Messenger' began to attract attention and
to extend his reputation into literary circles, but beyond his editorial
salary of about $520 brought him no pecuniary reward.

In January, 1837, for reasons never thoroughly explained, Poe severed
his connection with the 'Messenger', and moved with all his household
goods from Richmond to New York. Southern friends state that Poe was
desirous of either being admitted into partnership with his employer, or
of being allowed a larger share of the profits which his own labors
procured. In New York his earnings seem to have been small and
irregular, his most important work having been a republication from the
'Messenger' in book form of his Defoe-like romance entitled 'Arthur
Gordon Pym'. The truthful air of "The Narrative," as well as its other
merits, excited public curiosity both in England and America; but Poe's
remuneration does not appear to have been proportionate to its success,
nor did he receive anything from the numerous European editions the work
rapidly passed through.

In 1838 Poe was induced by a literary friend to break up his New York
home and remove with his wife and aunt (her mother) to Philadelphia. The
Quaker city was at that time quite a hotbed for magazine projects, and
among the many new periodicals Poe was enabled to earn some kind of a
living. T
o Burton's 'Gentleman's Magazine' for 1837 he had contributed a
few articles, but in 1840 he arranged with its proprietor to take up the
editorship. Poe had long sought to start a magazine of his own, and it
was probably with a view to such an eventuality that one of his
conditions for accepting the editorship of the 'Gentleman's Magazine'
was that his name should appear upon the title-page.

Poe worked hard at the 'Gentleman's' for some time, contributing to its
columns much of his best work; ultimately, however, he came to
loggerheads with its proprietor, Burton, who disposed of the magazine to
a Mr. Graham, a rival publisher. At this period Poe collected into two
volumes, and got them published as 'Tales of the Grotesque and
Arabesques', twenty-five of his stories, but he never received any
remuneration, save a few copies of the volumes, for the work. For some
time the poet strove most earnestly to start a magazine of his own, but
all his efforts failed owing to his want of capital.

The purchaser of Burton's magazine, having amalgamated it with another,
issued the two under the title of 'Graham's Magazine'. Poe became a
contributor to the new venture, and in November of the year 1840
consented to assume the post of editor.

Under Poe's management, assisted by the liberality of Mr. Graham,
'Graham's Magazine' became a grand success. To its pages Poe contributed
some of his finest and most popular tales, and attracted to the
publication the pens of many of the best contemporary authors. The
public was not slow in showing its appreciation of 'pabulum' put before
it, and, so its directors averred, in less than two years the
circulation rose from five to fifty-two thousand copies.

A great deal of this success was due to Poe's weird and wonderful
stories; still more, perhaps, to his trenchant critiques and his
startling theories anent cryptology. As regards the tales now issued in
'Graham's', attention may especially be drawn to the world-famed
"Murders in the Rue Morgue," the first of a series--'"une espece de
tr
ilogie,"' as Baudelaire styles them--illustrative of an analytic phase
of Poe's peculiar mind. This 'trilogie' of tales, of which the later two
were "The Purloined Letter" and "The Mystery of Marie Roget," was
avowedly written to prove the capability of solving the puzzling riddles
of life by identifying another person's mind by our own. By trying to
follow the processes by which a person would reason out a certain thing,
Poe propounded the theory that another person might ultimately arrive,
as it were, at that person's conclusions, indeed, penetrate the
innermost arcanum of his brain and read his most secret thoughts. Whilst
the public was still pondering over the startling proposition, and
enjoying perusal of its apparent proofs, Poe still further increased his
popularity and drew attention to his works by putting forward the
attractive but less dangerous theorem that "human ingenuity could not
construct a cipher which human ingenuity could not solve."

This cryptographic assertion was made in connection with what the public
deemed a challenge, and Poe was inundated with ciphers more or less
abstruse, demanding solution. In the correspondence which ensued in
'Graham's Magazine' and other publications, Poe was universally
acknowledged to have proved his case, so far as his own personal ability
to unriddle such mysteries was concerned. Although he had never offered
to undertake such a task, he triumphantly solved every cryptogram sent
to him, with one exception, and that exception he proved conclusively
was only an imposture, for which no solution was possible.

The outcome of this exhaustive and unprofitable labor was the
fascinating story of "The Gold Bug," a story in which the discovery of
hidden treasure is brought about by the unriddling of an intricate
cipher.

The year 1841 may be deemed the brightest of Poe's checkered career. On
every side acknowledged to be a new and brilliant literary light, chief
editor of a powerful magazine, admired, feared, and envied, with a
reputation already spreading rapidly in
 Europe as well as in his native
continent, the poet might well have hoped for prosperity and happiness.
But dark cankers were gnawing his heart. His pecuniary position was
still embarrassing. His writings, which were the result of slow and
careful labor, were poorly paid, and his remuneration as joint editor of
'Graham's' was small. He was not permitted to have undivided control,
and but a slight share of the profits of the magazine he had rendered
world-famous, whilst a fearful domestic calamity wrecked all his hopes,
and caused him to resort to that refuge of the broken-hearted--to that
drink which finally destroyed his prospects and his life.

Edgar Poe's own account of this terrible malady and its cause was made
towards the end of his career. Its truth has never been disproved, and
in its most important points it has been thoroughly substantiated. To a
correspondent he writes in January 1848:

 "You say, 'Can you _hint_ to me what was "that terrible evil" which
 caused the "irregularities" so profoundly lamented?' Yes, I can do more
 than hint. This _evil_ was the greatest which can befall a man. Six
 years ago, a wife whom I loved as no man ever loved before, ruptured a
 blood-vessel in singing. Her life was despaired of. I took leave of
 her forever, and underwent all the agonies of her death. She recovered
 partially, and I again hoped. At the end of a year, the vessel broke
 again. I went through precisely the same scene.... Then again--again--
 and even once again at varying intervals. Each time I felt all the
 agonies of her death--and at each accession of the disorder I loved
 her more dearly and clung to her life with more desperate pertinacity.
 But I am constitutionally sensitive--nervous in a very unusual degree.
 I became insane, with long intervals of horrible sanity. During these
 fits of absolute unconsciousness, I drank--God only knows how often or
 how much. As a matter of course, my enemies referred the insanity to
 the drink rather than the drink to the insanity. I had, indeed, nearly
 aba
ndoned all hope of a permanent cure, when I found one in the
 _death_ of my wife. This I can and do endure as becomes a man. It was
 the horrible never-ending oscillation between hope and despair which I
 could _not_ longer have endured, without total loss of reason."

The poet at this period was residing in a small but elegant little home,
superintended by his ever-faithful guardian, his wife's mother--his own
aunt, Mrs. Clemm, the lady whom he so gratefully addressed in after
years in the well-known sonnet, as "more than mother unto me." But a
change came o'er the spirit of his dream! His severance from 'Graham's',
owing to we know not what causes, took place, and his fragile schemes of
happiness faded as fast as the sunset. His means melted away, and he
became unfitted by mental trouble and ill-health to earn more. The
terrible straits to which he and his unfortunate beloved ones were
reduced may be comprehended after perusal of these words from Mr. A. B.
Harris's reminiscences.

Referring to the poet's residence in Spring Gardens, Philadelphia, this
writer says:

 "It was during their stay there that Mrs. Poe, while singing one
 evening, ruptured a blood-vessel, and after that she suffered a
 hundred deaths. She could not bear the slightest exposure, and needed
 the utmost care; and all those conveniences as to apartment and
 surroundings which are so important in the case of an invalid were
 almost matters of life and death to her. And yet the room where she
 lay for weeks, hardly able to breathe, except as she was fanned, was a
 little narrow place, with the ceiling so low over the narrow bed that
 her head almost touched it. But no one dared to speak, Mr. Poe was so
 sensitive and irritable; 'quick as steel and flint,' said one who knew
 him in those days. And he would not allow a word about the danger of
 her dying: the mention of it drove him wild."

Is it to be wondered at, should it not indeed be forgiven him, if,
impelled by the anxieties and privations at home, the unfortunate poet,
driven to the bri
nk of madness, plunged still deeper into the Slough of
Despond? Unable to provide for the pressing necessities of his beloved
wife, the distracted man

 "would steal out of the house at night, and go off and wander about
 the street for hours, proud, heartsick, despairing, not knowing which
 way to turn, or what to do, while Mrs. Clemm would endure the anxiety
 at home as long as she could, and then start off in search of him."

During his calmer moments Poe exerted all his efforts to proceed with
his literary labors. He continued to contribute to 'Graham's Magazine,'
the proprietor of which periodical remained his friend to the end of his
life, and also to some other leading publications of Philadelphia and
New York. A suggestion having been made to him by N. P. Willis, of the
latter city, he determined to once more wander back to it, as he found
it impossible to live upon his literary earnings where he was.

Accordingly, about the middle of 1845, Poe removed to New York, and
shortly afterwards was engaged by Willis and his partner Morris as
sub-editor on the 'Evening Mirror'. He was, says Willis,

 "employed by us for several months as critic and subeditor.... He
 resided with his wife and mother at Fordham, a few miles out of town,
 but was at his desk in the office from nine in the morning till the
 evening paper went to press. With the highest admiration for his
 genius, and a willingness to let it atone for more than ordinary
 irregularity, we were led by common report to expect a very capricious
 attention to his duties, and occasionally a scene of violence and
 difficulty. Time went on, however, and he was invariably punctual and
 industrious. With his pale, beautiful, and intellectual face, as a
 reminder of what genius was in him, it was impossible, of course, not
 to treat him always with deferential courtsey.... With a prospect of
 taking the lead in another periodical, he at last voluntarily gave up
 his employment with us."

A few weeks before Poe relinquished his laborious and ill-paid work on
the 
'Evening Mirror', his marvellous poem of "The Raven" was published.
The effect was magical. Never before, nor, indeed, ever since, has a
single short poem produced such a great and immediate enthusiasm. It did
more to render its author famous than all his other writings put
together. It made him the literary lion of the season; called into
existence innumerable parodies; was translated into various languages,
and, indeed, created quite a literature of its own. Poe was naturally
delighted with the success his poem had attained, and from time to time
read it in his musical manner in public halls or at literary receptions.
Nevertheless he affected to regard it as a work of art only, and wrote
his essay entitled the "Philosophy of Composition," to prove that it was
merely a mechanical production made in accordance with certain set
rules.

Although our poet's reputation was now well established, he found it
still a difficult matter to live by his pen. Even when in good health,
he wrote slowly and with fastidious care, and when his work was done had
great difficulty in getting publishers to accept it. Since his death it
has been proved that many months often elapsed before he could get
either his most admired poems or tales published.

Poe left the 'Evening Mirror' in order to take part in the 'Broadway
Journal', wherein he re-issued from time to time nearly the whole of his
prose and poetry. Ultimately he acquired possession of this periodical,
but, having no funds to carry it on, after a few months of heartbreaking
labor he had to relinquish it. Exhausted in body and mind, the
unfortunate man now retreated with his dying wife and her mother to a
quaint little cottage at Fordham, outside New York. Here after a time
the unfortunate household was reduced to the utmost need, not even
having wherewith to purchase the necessities of life. At this dire
moment, some friendly hand, much to the indignation and dismay of Poe
himself, made an appeal to the public on behalf of the hapless family.

The appeal had the desired effec
t. Old friends and new came to the
rescue, and, thanks to them, and especially to Mrs. Shew, the "Marie
Louise" of Poe's later poems, his wife's dying moments were soothed, and
the poet's own immediate wants provided for. In January, 1846, Virginia
Poe died; and for some time after her death the poet remained in an
apathetic stupor, and, indeed, it may be truly said that never again did
his mental faculties appear to regain their former power.

For another year or so Poe lived quietly at Fordham, guarded by the
watchful care of Mrs. Clemm,--writing little, but thinking out his
philosophical prose poem of "Eureka," which he deemed the crowning work
of his life. His life was as abstemious and regular as his means were
small. Gradually, however, as intercourse with fellow literati
re-aroused his dormant energies, he began to meditate a fresh start in
the world. His old and never thoroughly abandoned project of starting a
magazine of his own, for the enunciation of his own views on literature,
now absorbed all his thoughts. In order to get the necessary funds for
establishing his publication on a solid footing, he determined to give a
series of lectures in various parts of the States.

His re-entry into public life only involved him in a series of
misfortunes. At one time he was engaged to be married to Mrs. Whitman, a
widow lady of considerable intellectual and literary attainments; but,
after several incidents of a highly romantic character, the match was
broken off. In 1849 Poe revisited the South, and, amid the scenes and
friends of his early life, passed some not altogether unpleasing time.
At Richmond, Virginia, he again met his first love, Elmira, now a
wealthy widow, and, after a short renewed acquaintance, was once more
engaged to marry her. But misfortune continued to dog his steps.

A publishing affair recalled him to New York. He left Richmond by boat
for Baltimore, at which city he arrived on the 3d October, and handed
his trunk to a porter to carry to the train for Philadelphia. What now
happened has ne
ver been clearly explained. Previous to starting on his
journey, Poe had complained of indisposition,--of chilliness and of
exhaustion,--and it is not improbable that an increase or continuance of
these symptoms had tempted him to drink, or to resort to some of those
narcotics he is known to have indulged in towards the close of his life.
Whatever the cause of his delay, the consequences were fatal. Whilst in
a state of temporary mania or insensibility, he fell into the hands of a
band of ruffians, who were scouring the streets in search of accomplices
or victims. What followed is given on undoubted authority.

His captors carried the unfortunate poet into an electioneering den,
where they drugged him with whisky. It was election day for a member of
Congress, and Poe with other victims, was dragged from polling station
to station, and forced to vote the ticket placed in his hand. Incredible
as it may appear, the superintending officials of those days registered
the proffered vote, quite regardless of the condition of the person
personifying a voter. The election over, the dying poet was left in the
streets to perish, but, being found ere life was extinct, he was carried
to the Washington University Hospital, where he expired on the 7th of
October, 1849, in the forty-first year of his age.

Edgar Poe was buried in the family grave of his grandfather, General
Poe, in the presence of a few friends and relatives. On the 17th
November, 1875, his remains were removed from their first resting-place
and, in the presence of a large number of people, were placed under a
marble monument subscribed for by some of his many admirers. His wife's
body has recently been placed by his side.

The story of that "fitful fever" which constituted the life of Edgar Poe
leaves upon the reader's mind the conviction that he was, indeed, truly
typified by that:

 "Unhappy master, whom unmerciful disaster
 Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden
 bore--
 Till the dirges of his hope that melancholy burden bore
 Of 'Never--
nevermore.'"

JOHN H. INGRAM.

 * * * * *

 POEMS OF LATER LIFE

 TO

 THE NOBLEST OF HER SEX--
 TO THE AUTHOR OF
 "THE DRAMA OF EXILE"--

 TO

 MISS ELIZABETH BARRETT BARRETT,

 OF ENGLAND,

 I DEDICATE THIS VOLUME

 WITH THE MOST ENTHUSIASTIC ADMIRATION AND
 WITH THE MOST SINCERE ESTEEM.

 1845 E.A.P.

 * * * * *

PREFACE.

These trifles are collected and republished chiefly with a view to their
redemption from the many improvements to which they have been subjected
while going at random the "rounds of the press." I am naturally anxious
that what I have written should circulate as I wrote it, if it circulate
at all. In defence of my own taste, nevertheless, it is incumbent upon
me to say that I think nothing in this volume of much value to the
public, or very creditable to myself. Events not to be controlled have
prevented me from making, at any time, any serious effort in what, under
happier circumstances, would have been the field of my choice. With me
poetry has been not a purpose, but a passion; and the passions should be
held in reverence: they must not--they cannot at will be excited, with
an eye to the paltry compensations, or the more paltry commendations, of
mankind.

1845. E.A.P.

 * * * * *

THE RAVEN.

 Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
 Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore--
 While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
 As of some one gently rapping--rapping at my chamber door.
 "'Tis some visitor," I muttered, "tapping at my chamber door--
 Only this and nothing more."

 Ah, distinctly I remember, it was in the bleak December,
 And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
 Eagerly I wished the morrow;--vainly I had sought to borrow
 From my books surcease of sorrow--sorrow for the lost Lenore--
 For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore--
 Nameless here for evermore.

 And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
 Thrilled me--filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
 
So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating
 "'Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door--
 Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door;--
 This it is and nothing more."

 Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
 "Sir," said I, "or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
 But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
 And so faintly you came tapping--tapping at my chamber door,
 That I scarce was sure I heard you"--here I opened wide the door:--
 Darkness there and nothing more.

 Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering,
 fearing,
 Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;
 But the silence was unbroken, and the darkness gave no token,
 And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, "Lenore!"
 This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, "Lenore!"
 Merely this and nothing more.

 Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
 Soon I heard again a tapping, somewhat louder than before.
 "Surely," said I, "surely that is something at my window lattice;
 Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore--
 Let my heart be still a moment, and this mystery explore;--
 'Tis the wind and nothing more."

 Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
 In there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore;
 Not the least obeisance made he: not an instant stopped or stayed he;
 But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door--
 Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door--
 Perched, and sat, and nothing more.

 Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
 By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
 "Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou," I said, "art sure no
 craven,
 Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore--
 Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night's Plutonian shore!"
 Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."

 Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl
 to hear discourse so plainly,
 Though its answer little meaning--little relevancy bore;
 For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
 Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door--
 Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
 With such name as "Nevermore."

 But the Raven, sitting lonely on that placid bust, spoke only
 That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
 Nothing further then he uttered--not a feather then he fluttered--
 Till I scarcely more than muttered, "Other friends have flown before--
 On the morrow _he_ will leave me, as my hopes have flown before."
 Then the bird said, "Nevermore."

 Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
 "Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only stock and store,
 Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
 Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore--
 Till the dirges of his Hope the melancholy burden bore
 Of 'Never--nevermore.'"

 But the Raven still beguiling all my sad soul into smiling,
 Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird and bust and
 door;
 Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
 Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore--
 What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore
 Meant in croaking "Nevermore."

 This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
 To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core;
 This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
 On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o'er,
 But whose velvet violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o'er,
 _She_ shall press, ah, nevermore!

 Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
 Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.
 "Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee--by these angels he hath
 sent thee
 Respite--respite aad nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!
 Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe, and forget this 
lost Lenore!"
 Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."

 "Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil!--prophet still, if bird or devil!--
 Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
 Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted--
 On this home by Horror haunted--tell me truly, I implore--
 Is there--_is_ there balm in Gilead?--tell me--tell me, I implore!"
 Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."

 "Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil!--prophet still, if bird or devil!
 By that Heaven that bends above us--by that God we both adore--
 Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
 It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore--
 Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore."
 Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."

 "Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked,
 upstarting--
 "Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!
 Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
 Leave my loneliness unbroken!--quit the bust above my door!
 Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!"
 Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."

 And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
 On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
 And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming,
 And the lamp-light o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
 And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
 Shall be lifted--nevermore!

Published, 1845.

 * * * * *

THE BELLS,

I.

 Hear the sledges with the bells--
 Silver bells!
 What a world of merriment their melody foretells!
 How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle,
 In their icy air of night!
 While the stars, that oversprinkle
 All the heavens, seem to twinkle
 With a crystalline delight;
 Keeping time, time, time,
 In a sort of Runic rhyme,
 To the tintinnabulation that so musically wells
 From the bells, bells, bells, bells,
 Bells, bells, bells--
 From the jingling and the tinkling of the bells.

II.

 Hear the mellow weddi
ng bells,
 Golden bells!
 What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
 Through the balmy air of night
 How they ring out their delight!
 From the molten golden-notes,
 And all in tune,
 What a liquid ditty floats
 To the turtle-dove that listens, while she gloats
 On the moon!
 Oh, from out the sounding cells,
 What a gush of euphony voluminously wells!
 How it swells!
 How it dwells
 On the future! how it tells
 Of the rapture that impels
 To the swinging and the ringing
 Of the bells, bells, bells,
 Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
 Bells, bells, bells--
 To the rhyming and the chiming of the bells!

III.

 Hear the loud alarum bells--
 Brazen bells!
 What a tale of terror now their turbulency tells!
 In the startled ear of night
 How they scream out their affright!
 Too much horrified to speak,
 They can only shriek, shriek,
 Out of tune,
 In a clamorous appealing to the mercy of the fire,
 In a mad expostulation with the deaf and frantic fire
 Leaping higher, higher, higher,
 With a desperate desire,
 And a resolute endeavor
 Now--now to sit or never,
 By the side of the pale-faced moon.
 Oh, the bells, bells, bells!
 What a tale their terror tells
 Of Despair!
 How they clang, and clash, and roar!
 What a horror they outpour
 On the bosom of the palpitating air!
 Yet the ear it fully knows,
 By the twanging,
 And the clanging,
 How the danger ebbs and flows;
 Yet the ear distinctly tells,
 In the jangling,
 And the wrangling,
 How the danger sinks and swells,
 By the sinking or the swelling in the anger of the bells--
 Of the bells--
 Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
 Bells, bells, bells--
 In the clamor and the clangor of the bells!

IV.

 Hear the tolling of the bells--
 Iron bells!
 What a world of solemn thought their monody compels!
 In the silence of the night,
 How we shiver with affright
 At the melancholy menace of their tone!
 For every sound that floats
 From the rust within their throats
 Is a groan.
 And the people--ah, the people--
 They that dwell up in the steeple.
 All alone,
 And
 who toiling, toiling, toiling,
 In that muffled monotone,
 Feel a glory in so rolling
 On the human heart a stone--
 They are neither man nor woman--
 They are neither brute nor human--
 They are Ghouls:
 And their king it is who tolls;
 And he rolls, rolls, rolls,
 Rolls
 A paean from the bells!
 And his merry bosom swells
 With the paean of the bells!
 And he dances, and he yells;
 Keeping time, time, time,
 In a sort of Runic rhyme,
 To the paean of the bells--
 Of the bells:
 Keeping time, time, time,
 In a sort of Runic rhyme,
 To the throbbing of the bells--
 Of the bells, bells, bells--
 To the sobbing of the bells;
 Keeping time, time, time,
 As he knells, knells, knells,
 In a happy Runic rhyme,
 To the rolling of the bells--
 Of the bells, bells, bells--
 To the tolling of the bells,
 Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
 Bells, bells, bells--
 To the moaning and the groaning of the bells.

1849.

 * * * * *

ULALUME.

 The skies they were ashen and sober;
 The leaves they were crisped and sere--
 The leaves they were withering and sere;
 It was night in the lonesome October
 Of my most immemorial year;
 It was hard by the dim lake of Auber,
 In the misty mid region of Weir--
 It was down by the dank tarn of Auber,
 In the ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir.

 Here once, through an alley Titanic.
 Of cypress, I roamed with my Soul--
 Of cypress, with Psyche, my Soul.
 These were days when my heart was volcanic
 As the scoriac rivers that roll--
 As the lavas that restlessly roll
 Their sulphurous currents down Yaanek
 In the ultimate climes of the pole--
 That groan as they roll down Mount Yaanek
 In the realms of the boreal pole.

 Our talk had been serious and sober,
 But our thoughts they were palsied and sere--
 Our memories were treacherous and sere--
 For we knew not the month was October,
 And we marked not the night of the year--
 (Ah, night of all nights in the year!)
 We noted not the dim lake of Auber--
 (Though once we had journeyed down here)--
 Remembered not the dank tarn of Auber,
 Nor the gh
oul-haunted woodland of Weir.

 And now as the night was senescent
 And star-dials pointed to morn--
 As the sun-dials hinted of morn--
 At the end of our path a liquescent
 And nebulous lustre was born,
 Out of which a miraculous crescent
 Arose with a duplicate horn--
 Astarte's bediamonded crescent
 Distinct with its duplicate horn.

 And I said--"She is warmer than Dian:
 She rolls through an ether of sighs--
 She revels in a region of sighs:
 She has seen that the tears are not dry on
 These cheeks, where the worm never dies,
 And has come past the stars of the Lion
 To point us the path to the skies--
 To the Lethean peace of the skies--
 Come up, in despite of the Lion,
 To shine on us with her bright eyes--
 Come up through the lair of the Lion,
 With love in her luminous eyes."

 But Psyche, uplifting her finger,
 Said--"Sadly this star I mistrust--
 Her pallor I strangely mistrust:--
 Oh, hasten!--oh, let us not linger!
 Oh, fly!--let us fly!--for we must."
 In terror she spoke, letting sink her
 Wings till they trailed in the dust--
 In agony sobbed, letting sink her
 Plumes till they trailed in the dust--
 Till they sorrowfully trailed in the dust.

 I replied--"This is nothing but dreaming:
 Let us on by this tremulous light!
 Let us bathe in this crystalline light!
 Its Sibyllic splendor is beaming
 With Hope and in Beauty to-night:--
 See!--it flickers up the sky through the night!
 Ah, we safely may trust to its gleaming,
 And be sure it will lead us aright--
 We safely may trust to a gleaming
 That cannot but guide us aright,
 Since it flickers up to Heaven through the night."

 Thus I pacified Psyche and kissed her,
 And tempted her out of her gloom--
 And conquered her scruples and gloom;
 And we passed to the end of a vista,
 But were stopped by the door of a tomb--
 By the door of a legended tomb;
 And I said--"What is written, sweet sister,
 On the door of this legended tomb?"
 She replied--"Ulalume--Ulalume--
 'Tis the vault of thy lost Ulalume!"

 Then my heart it grew ashen and sober
 As 
the leaves that were crisped and sere--
 As the leaves that were withering and sere;
 And I cried--"It was surely October
 On _this_ very night of last year
 That I journeyed--I journeyed down here--
 That I brought a dread burden down here!
 On this night of all nights in the year,
 Ah, what demon has tempted me here?
 Well I know, now, this dim lake of Auber--
 This misty mid region of Weir--
 Well I know, now, this dank tarn of Auber,--
 This ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir."

1847.

 * * * * *

TO HELEN.

 I saw thee once--once only--years ago:
 I must not say _how_ many--but _not_ many.
 It was a July midnight; and from out
 A full-orbed moon, that, like thine own soul, soaring,
 Sought a precipitate pathway up through heaven,
 There fell a silvery-silken veil of light,
 With quietude, and sultriness and slumber,
 Upon the upturn'd faces of a thousand
 Roses that grew in an enchanted garden,
 Where no wind dared to stir, unless on tiptoe--
 Fell on the upturn'd faces of these roses
 That gave out, in return for the love-light,
 Their odorous souls in an ecstatic death--
 Fell on the upturn'd faces of these roses
 That smiled and died in this parterre, enchanted
 By thee, and by the poetry of thy presence.

 Clad all in white, upon a violet bank
 I saw thee half-reclining; while the moon
 Fell on the upturn'd faces of the roses,
 And on thine own, upturn'd--alas, in sorrow!

 Was it not Fate, that, on this July midnight--
 Was it not Fate (whose name is also Sorrow),
 That bade me pause before that garden-gate,
 To breathe the incense of those slumbering roses?
 No footstep stirred: the hated world all slept,
 Save only thee and me--(O Heaven!--O God!
 How my heart beats in coupling those two words!)--
 Save only thee and me. I paused--I looked--
 And in an instant all things disappeared.
 (Ah, bear in mind this garden was enchanted!)
 The pearly lustre of the moon went out:
 The mossy banks and the meandering paths,
 The happy flowers and the repining trees,
 Were seen no more: the very roses' odors
 Died in 
the arms of the adoring airs.
 All--all expired save thee--save less than thou:
 Save only the divine light in thine eyes--
 Save but the soul in thine uplifted eyes.
 I saw but them--they were the world to me.
 I saw but them--saw only them for hours--
 Saw only them until the moon went down.
 What wild heart-histories seemed to lie unwritten
 Upon those crystalline, celestial spheres!
 How dark a woe! yet how sublime a hope!
 How silently serene a sea of pride!
 How daring an ambition! yet how deep--
 How fathomless a capacity for love!

 But now, at length, dear Dian sank from sight,
 Into a western couch of thunder-cloud;
 And thou, a ghost, amid the entombing trees
 Didst glide away. _Only thine eyes remained._
 They _would not_ go--they never yet have gone.
 Lighting my lonely pathway home that night,
 _They_ have not left me (as my hopes have) since.
 They follow me--they lead me through the years.

 They are my ministers--yet I their slave.
 Their office is to illumine and enkindle--
 My duty, _to be saved_ by their bright light,
 And purified in their electric fire,
 And sanctified in their elysian fire.
 They fill my soul with Beauty (which is Hope),
 And are far up in Heaven--the stars I kneel to
 In the sad, silent watches of my night;
 While even in the meridian glare of day
 I see them still--two sweetly scintillant
 Venuses, unextinguished by the sun!

1846.

 * * * * *

ANNABEL LEE.

 It was many and many a year ago,
 In a kingdom by the sea,
 That a maiden there lived whom you may know
 By the name of ANNABEL LEE;
 And this maiden she lived with no other thought
 Than to love and be loved by me.

 _I_ was a child and _she_ was a child,
 In this kingdom by the sea:
 But we loved with a love that was more than love--
 I and my ANNABEL LEE;
 With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven
 Coveted her and me.

 And this was the reason that, long ago,
 In this kingdom by the sea,
 A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling
 My beautiful ANNABEL LEE;
 So that her highborn kinsmen came
 And bore her away from 
me,
 To shut her up in a sepulchre
 In this kingdom by the sea.

 The angels, not half so happy in heaven,
 Went envying her and me--
 Yes!--that was the reason (as all men know,
 In this kingdom by the sea)
 That the wind came out of the cloud by night,
 Chilling and killing my ANNABEL LEE.

 But our love it was stronger by far than the love
 Of those who were older than we--
 Of many far wiser than we--
 And neither the angels in heaven above,
 Nor the demons down under the sea,
 Can ever dissever my soul from the soul
 Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE.

 For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams
 Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE;
 And the stars never rise but I see the bright eyes
 Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE;
 And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side
 Of my darling, my darling, my life and my bride,
 In her sepulchre there by the sea--
 In her tomb by the side of the sea.

 * * * * *

A VALENTINE.

 For her this rhyme is penned, whose luminous eyes,
 Brightly expressive as the twins of Leda,
 Shall find her own sweet name, that, nestling lies
 Upon the page, enwrapped from every reader.
 Search narrowly the lines!--they hold a treasure
 Divine--a talisman--an amulet
 That must be worn _at heart_. Search well the measure--
 The words--the syllables! Do not forget
 The trivialest point, or you may lose your labor!
 And yet there is in this no Gordian knot
 Which one might not undo without a sabre,
 If one could merely comprehend the plot.
 Enwritten upon the leaf where now are peering
 Eyes scintillating soul, there lie _perdus_
 Three eloquent words oft uttered in the hearing
 Of poets by poets--as the name is a poet's, too.
 Its letters, although naturally lying
 Like the knight Pinto--Mendez Ferdinando--
 Still form a synonym for Truth--Cease trying!
 You will not read the riddle, though you do the best you _can_ do.

1846.

[To discover the names in this and the following poem, read the first
letter of the first line in connection with the second letter of the
second line, the third letter of t
he third line, the fourth, of the
fourth and so on, to the end.]

 * * * * *

AN ENIGMA.

 "Seldom we find," says Solomon Don Dunce,
 "Half an idea in the profoundest sonnet.
 Through all the flimsy things we see at once
 As easily as through a Naples bonnet--
 Trash of all trash!--how _can_ a lady don it?
 Yet heavier far than your Petrarchan stuff--
 Owl-downy nonsense that the faintest puff
 Twirls into trunk-paper the while you con it."
 And, veritably, Sol is right enough.
 The general tuckermanities are arrant
 Bubbles--ephemeral and _so_ transparent--
 But _this is_, now--you may depend upon it--
 Stable, opaque, immortal--all by dint
 Of the dear names that lie concealed within't.

[See note after previous poem.]

1847.

 * * * * *

TO MY MOTHER.

 Because I feel that, in the Heavens above,
 The angels, whispering to one another,
 Can find, among their burning terms of love,
 None so devotional as that of "Mother,"
 Therefore by that dear name I long have called you--
 You who are more than mother unto me,
 And fill my heart of hearts, where Death installed you,
 In setting my Virginia's spirit free.
 My mother--my own mother, who died early,
 Was but the mother of myself; but you
 Are mother to the one I loved so dearly,
 And thus are dearer than the mother I knew
 By that infinity with which my wife
 Was dearer to my soul than its soul-life.

1849.

[The above was addressed to the poet's mother-in-law, Mrs. Clemm.--Ed.]

 * * * * *

FOR ANNIE.

 Thank Heaven! the crisis--
 The danger is past,
 And the lingering illness
 Is over at last--
 And the fever called "Living"
 Is conquered at last.

 Sadly, I know,
 I am shorn of my strength,
 And no muscle I move
 As I lie at full length--
 But no matter!--I feel
 I am better at length.

 And I rest so composedly,
 Now in my bed,
 That any beholder
 Might fancy me dead--
 Might start at beholding me
 Thinking me dead.

 The moaning and groaning,
 The sighing and sobbing,
 Are quieted now,
 With that horrible throbbing
 At heart:--ah, that horrible,
 Horrible t
hrobbing!

 The sickness--the nausea--
 The pitiless pain--
 Have ceased, with the fever
 That maddened my brain--
 With the fever called "Living"
 That burned in my brain.

 And oh! of all tortures
 _That_ torture the worst
 Has abated--the terrible
 Torture of thirst,
 For the naphthaline river
 Of Passion accurst:--
 I have drank of a water
 That quenches all thirst:--

 Of a water that flows,
 With a lullaby sound,
 From a spring but a very few
 Feet under ground--
 From a cavern not very far
 Down under ground.

 And ah! let it never
 Be foolishly said
 That my room it is gloomy
 And narrow my bed--
 For man never slept
 In a different bed;
 And, to _sleep_, you must slumber
 In just such a bed.

 My tantalized spirit
 Here blandly reposes,
 Forgetting, or never
 Regretting its roses--
 Its old agitations
 Of myrtles and roses:

 For now, while so quietly
 Lying, it fancies
 A holier odor
 About it, of <DW29>s--
 A rosemary odor,
 Commingled with <DW29>s--
 With rue and the beautiful
 Puritan <DW29>s.

 And so it lies happily,
 Bathing in many
 A dream of the truth
 And the beauty of Annie--
 Drowned in a bath
 Of the tresses of Annie.

 She tenderly kissed me,
 She fondly caressed,
 And then I fell gently
 To sleep on her breast--
 Deeply to sleep
 From the heaven of her breast.

 When the light was extinguished,
 She covered me warm,
 And she prayed to the angels
 To keep me from harm--
 To the queen of the angels
 To shield me from harm.

 And I lie so composedly,
 Now in my bed
 (Knowing her love)
 That you fancy me dead--
 And I rest so contentedly,
 Now in my bed,
 (With her love at my breast)
 That you fancy me dead--
 That you shudder to look at me.
 Thinking me dead.

 But my heart it is brighter
 Than all of the many
 Stars in the sky,
 For it sparkles with Annie--
 It glows with the light
 Of the love of my Annie--
 With the thought of the light
 Of the eyes of my Annie.

1849.

 * * * * *

TO F--

 Beloved! amid the earnest woes
 That crowd around my earthly path--
 (Drear path, alas! where grows

 Not even one lonely rose)--
 My soul at least a solace hath
 In dreams of thee, and therein knows
 An Eden of bland repose.

 And thus thy memory is to me
 Like some enchanted far-off isle
 In some tumultuous sea--
 Some ocean throbbing far and free
 With storm--but where meanwhile
 Serenest skies continually
 Just o'er that one bright inland smile.

1845.

 * * * * *

TO FRANCES S. OSGOOD.

 Thou wouldst be loved?--then let thy heart
 From its present pathway part not;
 Being everything which now thou art,
 Be nothing which thou art not.
 So with the world thy gentle ways,
 Thy grace, thy more than beauty,
 Shall be an endless theme of praise.
 And love a simple duty.

1845.

 * * * * *

ELDORADO.

 Gaily bedight,
 A gallant knight,
 In sunshine and in shadow,
 Had journeyed long,
 Singing a song,
 In search of Eldorado.
 But he grew old--
 This knight so bold--
 And o'er his heart a shadow
 Fell as he found
 No spot of ground
 That looked like Eldorado.

 And, as his strength
 Failed him at length,
 He met a pilgrim shadow--
 "Shadow," said he,
 "Where can it be--
 This land of Eldorado?"

 "Over the Mountains
 Of the Moon,
 Down the Valley of the Shadow,
 Ride, boldly ride,"
 The shade replied,
 "If you seek for Eldorado!"

1849.

 * * * * *

EULALIE.

 I dwelt alone
 In a world of moan,
 And my soul was a stagnant tide,
 Till the fair and gentle Eulalie became my blushing bride--
 Till the yellow-haired young Eulalie became my smiling bride.
 Ah, less--less bright
 The stars of the night
 Than the eyes of the radiant girl!
 And never a flake
 That the vapor can make
 With the moon-tints of purple and pearl,
 Can vie with the modest Eulalie's most unregarded curl--
 Can compare with the bright-eyed Eulalie's most humble and careless
 curl.
 Now Doubt--now Pain
 Come never again,
 For her soul gives me sigh for sigh,
 And all day long
 Shines, bright and strong,
 Astarte within the sky,
 While ever to her dear Eulalie upturns her matron eye--
 While ever to her young Eulalie upturns her violet eye.

1845.

 *
 * * * *

A DREAM WITHIN A DREAM.

 Take this kiss upon the brow!
 And, in parting from you now,
 Thus much let me avow--
 You are not wrong, who deem
 That my days have been a dream:
 Yet if hope has flown away
 In a night, or in a day,
 In a vision or in none,
 Is it therefore the less _gone_?
 _All_ that we see or seem
 Is but a dream within a dream.

 I stand amid the roar
 Of a surf-tormented shore,
 And I hold within my hand
 Grains of the golden sand--
 How few! yet how they creep
 Through my fingers to the deep
 While I weep--while I weep!
 O God! can I not grasp
 Them with a tighter clasp?
 O God! can I not save
 _One_ from the pitiless wave?
 Is _all_ that we see or seem
 But a dream within a dream?

1849.

 * * * * *

TO MARIE LOUISE (SHEW).

 Of all who hail thy presence as the morning--
 Of all to whom thine absence is the night--
 The blotting utterly from out high heaven
 The sacred sun--of all who, weeping, bless thee
 Hourly for hope--for life--ah, above all,
 For the resurrection of deep buried faith
 In truth, in virtue, in humanity--
 Of all who, on despair's unhallowed bed
 Lying down to die, have suddenly arisen
 At thy soft-murmured words, "Let there be light!"
 At thy soft-murmured words that were fulfilled
 In thy seraphic glancing of thine eyes--
 Of all who owe thee most, whose gratitude
 Nearest resembles worship,--oh, remember
 The truest, the most fervently devoted,
 And think that these weak lines are written by him--
 By him who, as he pens them, thrills to think
 His spirit is communing with an angel's.

1847.

 * * * * *

TO MARIE LOUISE (SHEW).

 Not long ago, the writer of these lines,
 In the mad pride of intellectuality,
 Maintained "the power of words"--denied that ever
 A thought arose within the human brain
 Beyond the utterance of the human tongue:
 And now, as if in mockery of that boast,
 Two words--two foreign soft dissyllables--
 Italian tones, made only to be murmured
 By angels dreaming in the moonlit "dew
 That hangs like chains of pearl on Hermon hill,"--
 Have st
irred from out the abysses of his heart,
 Unthought-like thoughts that are the souls of thought,
 Richer, far wilder, far diviner visions
 Than even the seraph harper, Israfel,
 (Who has "the sweetest voice of all God's creatures,")
 Could hope to utter. And I! my spells are broken.
 The pen falls powerless from my shivering hand.
 With thy dear name as text, though hidden by thee,
 I cannot write--I cannot speak or think--
 Alas, I cannot feel; for 'tis not feeling,
 This standing motionless upon the golden
 Threshold of the wide-open gate of dreams,
 Gazing, entranced, adown the gorgeous vista,
 And thrilling as I see, upon the right,
 Upon the left, and all the way along,
 Amid empurpled vapors, far away
 To where the prospect terminates--_thee only_!

 * * * * *

THE CITY IN THE SEA.

 Lo! Death has reared himself a throne
 In a strange city lying alone
 Far down within the dim West,
 Where the good and the bad and the worst and the best
 Have gone to their eternal rest.
 There shrines and palaces and towers
 (Time-eaten towers and tremble not!)
 Resemble nothing that is ours.
 Around, by lifting winds forgot,
 Resignedly beneath the sky
 The melancholy waters lie.

 No rays from the holy Heaven come down
 On the long night-time of that town;
 But light from out the lurid sea
 Streams up the turrets silently--
 Gleams up the pinnacles far and free--
 Up domes--up spires--up kingly halls--
 Up fanes--up Babylon-like walls--
 Up shadowy long-forgotten bowers
 Of sculptured ivy and stone flowers--
 Up many and many a marvellous shrine
 Whose wreathed friezes intertwine
 The viol, the violet, and the vine.

 Resignedly beneath the sky
 The melancholy waters lie.
 So blend the turrets and shadows there
 That all seem pendulous in air,
 While from a proud tower in the town
 Death looks gigantically down.

 There open fanes and gaping graves
 Yawn level with the luminous waves;
 But not the riches there that lie
 In each idol's diamond eye--
 Not the gaily-jewelled dead
 Tempt the waters from their bed;
 For no ripp
les curl, alas!
 Along that wilderness of glass--
 No swellings tell that winds may be
 Upon some far-off happier sea--
 No heavings hint that winds have been
 On seas less hideously serene.

 But lo, a stir is in the air!
 The wave--there is a movement there!
 As if the towers had thrust aside,
 In slightly sinking, the dull tide--
 As if their tops had feebly given
 A void within the filmy Heaven.
 The waves have now a redder glow--
 The hours are breathing faint and low--
 And when, amid no earthly moans,
 Down, down that town shall settle hence,
 Hell, rising from a thousand thrones,
 Shall do it reverence.

1835?

 * * * * *

THE SLEEPER

 At midnight, in the month of June,
 I stand beneath the mystic moon.
 An opiate vapor, dewy, dim,
 Exhales from out her golden rim,
 And, softly dripping, drop by drop,
 Upon the quiet mountain top,
 Steals drowsily and musically
 Into the universal valley.
 The rosemary nods upon the grave;
 The lily lolls upon the wave;
 Wrapping the fog about its breast,
 The ruin moulders into rest;
 Looking like Lethe, see! the lake
 A conscious slumber seems to take,
 And would not, for the world, awake.
 All Beauty sleeps!--and lo! where lies
 (Her casement open to the skies)
 Irene, with her Destinies!

 Oh, lady bright! can it be right--
 This window open to the night!
 The wanton airs, from the tree-top,
 Laughingly through the lattice-drop--
 The bodiless airs, a wizard rout,
 Flit through thy chamber in and out,
 And wave the curtain canopy
 So fitfully--so fearfully--
 Above the closed and fringed lid
 'Neath which thy slumb'ring soul lies hid,
 That, o'er the floor and down the wall,
 Like ghosts the shadows rise and fall!
 Oh, lady dear, hast thou no fear?
 Why and what art thou dreaming here?
 Sure thou art come o'er far-off seas,
 A wonder to these garden trees!
 Strange is thy pallor! strange thy dress!
 Strange, above all, thy length of tress,
 And this all-solemn silentness!

 The lady sleeps! Oh, may her sleep
 Which is enduring, so be deep!
 Heaven have her in its sac
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson,
Steve Schulze and PG Distributed Proofreaders

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," to preserve the paper for binding, will be |
 | sent postpaid, on receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | We will Mail Free |
 | |
 | A COVER |
 | |
 | Lettered & Stamped, with New Title Page |
 | |
 | FOR BINDING |
 | |
 | FIRST VOLUME, |
 | |
 | On Receipt of 50 Cents, |
 | |
 | TITLE PAGE ALONE, FREE, |
 | |
 | On application to |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and cheaper |
 | than any other Pen in the market. Special attention is |
 | called to the following grades, as being better suited for |
 | business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "503," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | |
 | Sole Agents for United States, |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

VOL II., NO. 29

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,

By ORPHEUS C. KERR.

Continued in this Number.

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bound Volume No. 1. |
 | |
 | The first volume of PUNCHINELLO-- the only first-class, |
 | original, illustrated, humorous and satirical weekly paper |
 | published in this country--ending with No. 26, September 24, |
 | 1870, |
 | |
 | Bound in Extra Cloth, |
 | |
 | will be ready for delivery on Oct 
1, 1870. |
 | |
 | PRICE $2.50. |
 | |
 | Sent postpaid to any part of the United States on receipt of |
 | price. |
 | |
 | A copy of the paper for one year, from October 1st, No. 27, |
 | and the Bound Volume, (the latter prepaid,) will be sent to |
 | any subscriber for $5.50. |
 | |
 | Three copies for one year, and three Bound Volumes, with an |
 | extra copy of Bound Volume, to any person sending us three |
 | subscriptions for $16.50. |
 | |
 | One copy of a paper for one year, with a fine chromo |
 | premium, for..... $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, mailed free .10 |
 | |
 | Back numbers can always be supplied, as the paper is |
 | electrotyped. |
 | |
 | Book canvassers will find this volume a |
 | |
 | Very Saleable Book. |
 | |
 | Orders supplied at a very liberal discount. |
 | |
 | All remittances should be made in Post Office orders. |
 | |
 | Canvassers wanted for the paper everywhere. Send for our |
 | Special Circular. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | Punchinello Publishing Co., |
 | |
 | 83 NASSAU ST., N.Y. |
 | |
 | P.O. Box No. 2783. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO |
 | |
 | JOHN NICKINSON, |
 | |
 | Room No. 4, |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, N.Y. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for September, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank, |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, |
 | Free of Gove
rnment Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_. |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents_. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing |
 | Houses, can have the same forwarded by inclosing two |
 | stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2783.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A NEW AND MUCH-NEEDED BOOK. |
 | |
 | MATERNITY |
 | |
 | A POPULAR TREATISE |
 | |
 | For Young Wives and Mothers |
 | |
 | BY T. S. VERDI, A. M., M. D., OF WASHINGTON, D. C. |
 | |
 | Dr. VERDI is a well-known and successful Homoeopathic |
 | Practitioner, of thorough scientific training and large |
 | experience. His book has arisen from a want felt in his own |
 | practice, as a Monitor to Young Wives, a Guide to Young |
 | Mothers, and an assistant to the family physician. It deals |
 | skilfully, sensibly, and delicately with the perplexities of |
 | early married life, as connected with the holy duties of |
 | Maternity, giving information which women must have, either |
 | in conversation with physicians, or from such a source as |
 | this--evidently the preferable mode of learning, for a |
 | delicate and sensitive woman. Plain and intelligible, but |
 | without offense to the most fastidious taste, the style of |
 | this book must commend it to careful perusal. It treats of |
 | the needs, dangers, and alleviations of the time of travail; |
 | and gives extended detailed instruc
tions for the care and |
 | medical treatment of infants and children throughout all the |
 | perils of early life. |
 | |
 | As a Mother's Manual, it will hare a large sale, and as a |
 | book of special and reliable information on very important |
 | topics, it will be heartily welcomed. |
 | |
 | Handsomely printed on laid paper: bevelled boards, extra |
 | English cloth, 12mo., 450 pages. Price $2.25. |
 | |
 | _For sale by all Booksellers, or will be sent post-paid on |
 | receipt of the price by_ |
 | |
 | J. B. FORD & CO., Publishers, |
 | 39 Park Row, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL, |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2845. |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | The only Journal of its kind in America!! |
 | |
 | THE AMERICAN CHEMIST: |
 | |
 | A MONTHLY JOURNAL OF THEORETICAL, ANALYTICAL AND TECHNICAL |
 | CHEMISTRY. |
 | |
 | DEVOTED ESPECIALLY TO AMERICAN INTERESTS. |
 | |
 | EDITED BY Chas. F. Chandler, Ph.D., & W.H. Chandler. |
 | |
 | The Proprietors and Publishers of THE AMERICAN CHEMIST, |
 | having purchased the subscription list and stock of the |
 | American reprint of the CHEMICAL NEWS, have decided to |
 | advance the interests of the American Chemical Science by |
 | the publication of a Journal which shall be a medium of |
 | communication for all practical, thinking, experimenting, |
 | and manufacturing scientific men throughout the country. |
 | |
 | The columns of THE AMERICAN CHEMIST are open for the |
 | reception of original articles from any part of the country, |
 
| subject to approval of the editor. Letters of inquiry on any |
 | points of interest within the scope of the Journal will |
 | receive prompt attention. |
 | |
 | THE AMERICAN CHEMIST |
 | |
 | Is a Journal of especial interest to |
 | |
 | SCHOOLS AND MEN OF SCIENCE, TO COLLEGES, APOTHECARIES, |
 | DRUGGISTS, PHYSICIANS, ASSAYERS, DYERS, PHOTOGRAPHERS, |
 | MANUFACTURERS, |
 | |
 | And all concerned in scientific pursuits. |
 | |
 | Subscription, $5.00 per annum, in advance; 50 cts. per |
 | number. Specimen copies, 25 cts. |
 | |
 | Address WILLIAM BALDWIN & CO., |
 | |
 | Publishers and Proprietors, |
 | |
 | 434 Broome Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XXII.--(Continued.)

When Miss POTTS and Mr. SIMPSON rejoined Mr. DIBBLE, in the office of
the latter, across the street, it was decided that the flighty young
girl should be made less expensive to her friends by temporary
accommodation in an economical boarding-house, and that the Gospeler,
returning to Bumsteadville, should persuade Miss CAROWTHERS to come and
stay with her until the time for the reopening of the Macassar Female
College.

Subsequently, with his homeless ward upon his arm, the benignant old
lawyer underwent a series of scathing rebuffs from the various
high-strung descendants of better days at whose once luxurious but now
darkened homes he applied for the desired board. Time after time
 was he
reminded, by unspeakably majestic middle-aged ladies with bass voices,
that when a fine old family loses its former wealth by those
vicissitudes of fortune which bring out the noblest traits of character
and compel the letting-out of a few damp rooms, it is significant of a
weak understanding, or a depraved disrespect of the dignity of
adversity, to expect that such families shall lose money and lower their
hereditary high tone by waiting upon a parcel of young girls. A few
Single Gentlemen desiring all the comforts of a home would not be
considered insulting unless they objected to the butter, and a couple of
married Childless Gentlemen with their wives might be pardoned for
respectfully applying; but the idea of a parcel of young girls! Wherever
he went, the reproach of not being a few Single Gentlemen, or a, couple
of married Childless Gentlemen with their wives, abashed Mr. DIBBLE into
helpless retreat; while FLORA'S increasing guilty consciousness of the
implacable sentiment against her as a parcel of young girls, culminated
at last in tears. Finally, when the miserable lawyer was beginning to
think strongly of the House of the Good Shepherd, or the Orphan Asylum,
as a last resort, it suddenly occurred to him that Mrs. SKAMMERHORN, a
distant widowed aunt of his clerk, Mr. BLADAMS, had been known to live
upon boarders in Bleecker Street; and thither he dragged hastily the
despised object on his arm.

Being a widow without children, and relieved of nearly all the
weaknesses of her sex by the systematic refusal of the opposite sex to
give her any encouragement in them, Mrs. SKAMMERHORN was a relentless
advocate of Woman's Inalienable Rights, and only wished that Man could
just see himself in that contemptible light in which he was distinctly
visible to One who, sooner than be his Legal Slave, would never again
accompany him to the Altar.

"I tell you candidly, DIBBLE," said she, in answer to his application,
"that if you had applied to be taken yourself, I should have said
'Never!' and at once called in
 the police. Since SKAMMERHORN died
delirious, I have always refused to have his sex in the house, and I
tell you, frankly, that I consider it hardly human. If this girl of
yours, however, and the elderly female whom, you say, she expects to
join her in a few days, will make themselves generally useful about the
house, and try to be companions to me, I can give them the very room
where SKAMMERHORN died."

Perceiving that FLORA turned pale, her guardian whispered to her that
she would not be alone in the room, at any rate; and then respectfully
asked whether the late Mr. SKAMMERHORN had ever been seen around the
house since his death?

"To be frank with you," answered the widow, "I did think that I came
upon him once in the closet, with his back to me, as often I'd seen the
weak creature in life going after a bottle on the top shelf. But it was
only his coat hanging there, with his boots standing below and my muff
hanging over to look like his head."

"You think, then," said Mr. DIBBLE, inquiringly, "that it is such a room
as two ladies could occupy, without awaking at midnight with a strange
sensation and thinking they felt a supernatural presence?"

"Not if the bed was rightly searched beforehand, and all the joints well
peppered with magnetic powder," was the assuring answer.

"Could we see the room, madam?"

"If the shutters were open you could; as they're not;" returned the
widow, not offering to stir; "but ever since SKAMMERHORN, starting up
with a howl, said 'Here he comes again, red-hot!' and tried to jump out
of the window, I've never opened them for any single man, and never
shall. I couldn't bear it, DIBBLE, to see one of your sex in that room
again, and hope you will not insist."

Broken in spirit as he was by preceding humiliations, the old lawyer had
not the heart to contest the point, and it was agreed, that, upon the
arrival of Miss CAROWTHERS from Bumsteadville, she and FLORA should
accept the memorable room in question.

Upon their way back to the hotel, guardian and ward met Mr. BENTHAM,
who, fr
om the moment of becoming a character in their Story, had been
possessed with that mysterious madness for open-air exercise which
afflicted every acquaintance of the late EDWIN DROOD, and now saluted
them in the broiling street and solemnly besought their company for a
long walk. "It has occurred to me," said the Comic Paper man, who had
resumed his black worsted gloves, "that Mr. DIBBLE and Miss POTTS may be
willing to aid me in walking-off some of the darker suicidal
inclinations incident to first-class Humorous Journalism in America.
Reading the 'proof' of an instalment of a comic serial now publishing in
my paper, I contracted such gloom, that a frantic rush into the fresh
air was my only hope of on escape from self-destruction. Let us walk,
if you please."

Led on, in the profoundest melancholy, by this chastened character, Mr.
DIBBLE and the Flowerpot were presently toiling hotly through a
succession of grievous side-streets, and forlorn short-cuts to dismal
ferries; the state of their conductor's spirits inclining him to find a
certain refreshingly solemn joy in the horrors of pedestrianism imposed
by obstructions of merchandise on side-walks, and repeated climbings
over skids extending from store doors to drays. Inspired to an
extraordinary flow of malignant animal spirits by the complexities of
travel incident to the odorous mazes of some hundred odd kegs of salt
mackerel and boxes of brown soap impressively stacked before one very
enterprising Commission house, Mr. BENTHAM lightened the journey with
anecdotes of self-made Commission men who had risen in life by breaking
human legs and city ordinances; and dwelt emotionally upon the scenes in
the city hospitals where ladies and gentlemen were brought in, with
nails from the hoops of sugar-hogsheads sticking into their feet, or
limbs dislocated from too-loftily piled firkins of butter falling upon
them. Through incredible hardships, and amongst astounding complications
of horse-cars, target companies, and barrels of everything, Mr. BENTHAM
also amused his
 friends with circuits of several of the fine public
markets of New York; explaining to them the relations of the various
miasmatic smells of those quaint edifices with the various devastating
diseases of the day, and expatiating quite eloquently upon the political
corruption involved in the renting of the stalls, and the fine openings
there were for Cholera and Yellow Fever in the Fish and Vegetable
departments. Then, as a last treat, he led his panting companions
through several lively up-hill blocks of drug-mills and tobacco firms,
to where they had a distant view of a tenement house next door to a
kerosene factory, where, as he vivaciously told them, in the event of a
fire, at least one hundred human beings would be slowly done to a turn.
After which all three returned from their walk, firmly convinced that an
unctuous vein of humor had been conscientiously worked, and abstractedly
wishing themselves dead.[1]

The exhilarating effect of the genial Comic Paper man upon FLORA did
not, indeed, pass away, until she and Miss CAROWTHERS were in their
appointed quarters under the roof of Mrs. SKAMMERHORN, whither they went
immediately upon the arrival of the elder spinster from Bumsteadville.

"It could have been wished, my good woman," said Miss CAROWTHERS,
casting a rather disparaging look around the death-chamber of the late
Mr. SKAMMERHORN, "that you had assigned to educated single young ladies,
like ourselves, an apartment less suggestive of Man in his wedded
aspects. The spectacle of a pair of pegged boots sticking out from under
a bed, and a razor and a hone grouped on the mantle-shelf, is not such
as I should desire to encourage in the dormitory of a pupil under my
tuition."

"That's much to be deplored, I'm sure, CAROWTHERS," returned Mrs.
SKAMMERHORN, severely, "and sorry am I that I ever married, on that
particular account. I'd not have done it, if you'd only told me. But,
seeing that I married SKAMMERHORN, and then he died delirious, his
boots and razor must remain, just as he often wished to throw the
f
ormer at me in his ravings. Once married is enough, say I; and those
who never were, through having no proposals, must bear with those who
have, and take things as they come."

"There are those, I'd have you know, Mrs. SKAMMERHORN, to whom proposals
have been no inducement," said Miss CAROWTHERS, sharply; "or, if being
made, and then withdrawn, have given our sex opportunities to prove, in
courts of law, that damages can still be got. I'm afraid of no Man, my
good woman, as a person named BLODGETT once learned from a jury; but
boots and razors are not what I would have familiar to the mind of one
who never had a husband to die in raging torments, nor yet has sued for
breach."

"Miss POTTS is but a chicken, I'll admit," retorted Mrs. SKAMMERHORN;
"but you're not such, CAROWTHERS, by many a good year. On the contrary,
quite a hen. Then, you being with her, if the boots and razor make her
think she sees that poor, weak SKAMMERHORN a-ranging round the room,
when in his grave it is his place to be, you've only got to say: 'A fool
you are, and always were,'--as often I, myself, called at him in his
lifetime,--and off he'll go into his tomb again for fear of
broomsticks."

"FLORA, my dear," said Miss CAROWTHERS, turning with dignity to her
pupil, "if I know anything of human nature, the man who has once got
away from here, will stay away. Only single ghosts have attachments for
the houses in which they once lived. So, never mind the boots and razor,
darling; which, after all, if seen by peddlers, or men who come to fix
the gas, might keep us safe from robbers."

"As safe as any man himself, young woman, with pistols under his head
that he would never dare to fire if robbers were no more than cats
rampaging," added Mrs. SKAMMERHORN, enthusiastically. "With nothing but
an old black hat of SKAMMERHORN'S, and walking-cane, kept hanging in the
hall, I haven't lost a spoon by tramps or census takers for six mortal
years. So, make yourselves at home, I beg you both, while I go down and
cook the liver for our dinner. You'll fin
d it tender as a chicken, after
what you've broke your teeth upon in boarding-schools; though
SKAMMERHORN declared it made him bilious in the second year, forgetting
what he'd drank with sugar to his taste, beforehand."

Thus was sweet FLORA POTTS introduced to her new home; where, but for
looking down from her windows at the fashions, making-up hundreds of
bows of ribbons for her neck, and making-over all her dresses, her
woman's mind must have been a blank. What time Miss CAROWTHERS told her
all day how she looked in this or that style of wearing her hair, and
read her to sleep each night with extracts from the pages of cheery
HANNAH MORE. As for the object nearest her young heart, to say that she
was wholly unruffled by it would be inaccurate; but by address she kept
it hidden from all eyes save her own.

[Footnote 1: Ordinary readers, while admiring the heavy humor of this
unexpected open-air episode, may wonder what on earth it has to do with
the the Story; but the cultivated few, understanding the ingenious
mechanics of novel-writing, will appreciate it as a most skilful and
happy device to cover the interval between the hiring of Mrs.
SKAMMERHORN's room, and the occupation thereof by FLORA and her late
teacher--another instance of what our profoundly critical American
journals call "artistic--elaboration." (See corresponding Chapter of
the original English Story.)]

CHAPTER XXIII.

GOING HOME IN THE MORNING.

After having thrown all his Ritualistic friends at home into a most
unholy and exasperated condition of mind, by a steady series of vague
remarks as to the extreme likelihood of their united implication in the
possible deed of darkness by which he has lost a broadcloth nephew and
an alpaca umbrella, the mournful Mr. BUMSTEAD is once more awaiting the
dawn in that popular retreat in Mulberry Street where he first
contracted his taste for cloves. The Assistant-Assessor and the Alderman
of the Ward are again there, tilted back against the wall in their
chairs; their shares in the Congressional Nominating
 Convention held in
that room earlier in the night having left them too weary for further
locomotion. The decanters and tumblers hurled by the Nominating
Convention over the question of which Irishman could drink the most to
be nominated, are still scattered about the floor; here and there a
forgotten slungshot marks the places where rival delegations have
confidently presented their claims for recognition; and a few
bullet-holes in the wall above the bar enumerate the various pauses in
the great debate upon the perils of the public peace from <DW64>
Suffrage.

Reclining with great ease of attitude upon an uncushioned settee, the
Ritualistic organist is aroused from dreamy slumber by the turning-over
of the pipe in his mouth, and majestically motions for the venerable
woman of the house to come and brush the ashes from his clothes.

"Wud yez have it filled again, honey?" asks the woman. "Sure, wan pipe
more would do ye no harrum."

"I'mtooshleepy," he says, dropping the pipe.

"An' are yez too shlapey, asthore, to talk a little bissiness wid an
ould woman?" she asks, insinuatingly. "Couldn't yez be afther payin' me
the bit av a schore I've got agin ye?"

Mr. BUMSTEAD opens his eyes reproachfully, and wishes to know how she
can dare talk about money matters to an organist who, at almost any
moment, may be obliged to see a Chinaman hired in his place on account
of cheapness?

"Could the haythen crayture play, thin?" she asks, wonderingly.

"Thairvairimitative," he tells her;--"Cookwashiron' n' eatbirdsnests."

"An' vote would they, honey?"

"Yesh--'f course--thairvairimitative, I tell y'," snarls he:
"do'tcheapzdirt."

"Is it vote chaper they would, the haythen naygurs, than daycint,
hardworkin' white min?" she asks, excitedly.

"Yesh. Chinesecheaplabor," he says, bitterly.

"Och, hone!" cries the woman, in anguish; "and f'hat's the poor to do
then, honey?"

"Gowest; go'nfarm!" sobs Mr. BUMSTEAD, shedding tears. "I'd go m'self if
a-hadn't lost dear-er-rerelative.--Nephew'n' umbrella."

"Saint PAYTHER! an' f'hat's t
hat?"

"EDWINS!" cries the unhappy organist, starting to his feet with a wild
reel. "Th' pride of'suncle'sheart! I see 'm now,
in'sh'fectionatemanhood, with whalebone ribs, made 'f alpaca,
andyetsoyoung. 'Help me!' hiccries; 'PENDRAGON'sash'nate'n me!'
hiccries--and I go!"

While uttering this extraordinary burst of feeling, he has advanced
towards the door in a kind of demoniac can-can, and, at its close,
abruptly darts into the street and frantically makes off.

"The cross of the holy fathers!" ejaculates the woman, momentarily
bewildered by this sudden termination of the scene. Then a new
expression comes swiftly over her face, and she adds, in a different
tone, "Odether-nodether, but it's coonin' as a fox he is, and it's off
he's gone again widout payin' me the schore! Sure, but I'll follow him,
if it's to the wurruld's ind, and see f'hat he is and where he is."

Thus it happens that she reaches Bumsteadville almost as soon as the
Ritualistic organist, and, following him to his boarding-house,
encounters Mr. TRACEY CLEWS upon the steps.

"Well, now!" calls that gentleman, as she looks inquiringly at him, "who
do you want?"

"Him as just passed in, your Honor."

"Mr. BUMSTEAD?"

"Ah. Where does he play the organ?"

"In St. Cow's Church, down yonder. Mass at seven o'clock, and he'll be
there in half an hour."

"It's there I'll be, thin," mumbles the woman; "and bad luck to it that
I didn't know before; whin I came to ax him for me schore, and might
have gone home widout a cint but for a good lad named EDDY who gave me a
sthamp.--The same EDDY, I'm thinkin', that I've heard him mutter about
in his shlape at my shebang in town, whin he came there on political
business."

After a start and a pause, Mr. CLEWS repeats his information concerning
the Ritualistic church, and then cautiously follows the woman as she
goes thither.

Unconscious of the remarkable female figure intently watching him from
under a corner of the gallery, and occasionally shaking a fist at him,
Mr. BUMSTEAD attends to the musical part of the se
rvice with as much
artistic accuracy as a hasty head-bath and a glass of soda-water are
capable of securing. The worshippers are too busy with risings,
kneelings, bowings, and miscellaneous devout gymnastics, to heed his
casual imperfections, and his headache makes him fiercely indifferent to
what any one else may think.

Coming out of the athletic edifice, Mr. CLEWS comes upon the woman
again, who seems excited.

"Well?" he says.

"Sure he saw me in time to shlip out of a back dure," she returns,
savagely; "but it's shtrait to his boording-house I'm going afther him,
the spalpeen."

Again Mr. TRACEY CLEWS follows her; but this time he allows her to go up
to Mr. BUMSTEAD'S room, while he turns into his own apartment where his
breakfast awaits him. "I can make a chalk mark for the trail I've struck
to-day," he says; and then thoughtfully attacks the meal upon the
table.[2]

(_To be Continued._)

[Footnote 2: At this point, the English original of this Adaptation--the
"Mystery of EDWIN DROOD"--breaks off forever.]

 * * * * *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

Nilsson has come; and, sad to say, has brought dissension and discord
with her. Not that there is any discord in her matchless voice, but
there is a vast amount of wrangling as to her precise merits. Do you
doubt this? Then come with me in my light Fourth Avenue car, while the
stars are bright and the sky is blue, (this is an adaptation of a once
popular love-song by Dr. WATTS,) and we will go to Steinway Hall to hear
the Improved Swedish Nightingale, and feast our eyes on STRAKOSCH'S
flowers.

We pass up the steep staircase--with many misgivings as to our ankles,
if we belong to the sex which considers the possession of those
anatomical features a fact to be carefully concealed, provided they are
not symmetrical. We pass the door-keeper, who, as is the custom of his
kind, frowns malignantly at us, and evidently asks himself--"How much
longer can I refrain from tearing up the tickets of these impudent
pleasure-seekers, and throwing the pieces in their infamously contente
d
countenances?" We gain the hall, and are sent to the inevitable "other
aisle," by the usher, (by the way, why is it that one always gets into
the wrong aisle, only to be ignominiously ordered to the opposite side
of the house?) and we finally turn various illegal occupants out of our
seats, and begin to fan ourselves in fervid anticipation of the coming
musical treat. A buzz of conversation is everywhere going on. Did any
one ever notice the curious fact that a middle-aged man and woman can
converse at a theatre or concert room without either one finding any
difficulty in hearing what the other says, while no young man can make
his accompanying young lady hear a single word unless his mouth is in
close proximity to her ear? This singular state of things is doubtless
due to the peculiar acoustical properties of public buildings. We
manage, however, to hear a good deal of both young and middle-aged
conversation, of the following improving type.

RURAL PERSON. "I've heard most everybody that's sung in our Philadelphy
opera house, and some of 'em are pretty hard to beat. NILSSON may beat
'em, you know. Mind, now, I don't say she won't, but she's got a mighty
hard row to hoe."

CRITIC. _(Who sent for seats for his eight sisters and their
friends--but who did not get them.)_ "There comes the Scandinavian
Society--fifty Irishmen at fifty cents a head. Did you see the flowers
piled up in the lobby? MAX paid seven hundred dollars for the lot."

YOUNG MAN. "Dearest! I wish you wouldn't look at that fellow across the
way. You know how your own darling loves you, and--"

YOUNG LADY. "Hush! Don't bother. Here comes VIEUXTEMPS."

VIEUXTEMPS plays, and the audience listens with the air of people who
are dreadfully bored, but are afraid to show it. He disappears with an
amount of applause carefully graduated so as to express enthusiasm
without the desire for hearing him again. The Rural Person remarks that
"he doesn't think much of fiddlers anyhow. Give him a trombone, or a
banjo, for his money."

MR. WEHLI then trifles with t
he piano. Him, too, the audience politely
endure, but plainly do not appreciate. They have come to hear NILSSON,
and feel outraged at having to hear anybody else. A cornet solo by the
Angel GABRIEL himself would be secretly regarded as undoubtedly
artistic, but certainly a little out of place.

CHORUS OF RIVAL PIANO-MAKERS. "What a wretched instrument that poor
fellow is made to play upon. Nobody can produce any effect on a STEINWAY
piano. It's good for nothing but for boarding-school practice."

CRITIC, (who knows Mr. STEINWAY.) "Anybody can please people by playing
on a STEINWAY. I defy WEHLI or any other man to play badly on such a
superb instrument as that."

YOUNG MAN. "Dearest! Do you remember the day when you gave me one of
your hair-pins? I have worn it next my--"

YOUNG LADY. "Oh, don't bother. NILSSON is just going to sing."

And she does sing, with that voice so matchless in its perfect purity,
that even the disappointed critic grows uneasy as he tries in vain to
find some reasonable fault with it. She ceases, and amid wild cheers
from the paying part of the audience, silent approval from the
deadheads, and shouts of "Hooroo!" and "Begorra!" from the Scandinavian
Society, MAX'S flowers are brought in solemn procession up the aisle,
and laid at the feet of the Improved Nightingale.

CRITIC. "Those flowers will just be taken out of the back door, and
brought in again to be used the second time. There's a hand-cart waiting
for them now, at the Fifteenth Street entrance."

SIX PRIME DONNE, _(who were not asked to sing at the NILSSON concerts.)_
"Well, did you ever hear 'Angels Ever Bright' sung in a more atrocious
style? If that is NILSSON's idea of expression, the sooner she leaves
the stage to artists, the better."

CYNICAL OLD MUSICIAN. "Bah! NILSSON infuses religious sentiment into her
singing, and these envious creatures don't know what religious sentiment
is, so they think she is all wrong. If she had sung HANDEL with a smile,
and a coquettish tossing of her head, they would still have hated her,
but
 they would not have ventured to call her "inartistic.""

YOUNG MAN. "Darling! I had rather hear your sweet voice, than listen to
NILSSON or a choir of angels for the rest of my--"

YOUNG LADY. "CHARLES, you will drive me wild, with your intolerable
spooniness. I'll never come out with you again. See how the SMITH girls
are looking at you."

RURAL PERSON. "--So I says to the usher, 'If you think I'm a countryman
who don't know what's what, you're everlastingly sold.' 'I'm from
Philadelphy,' says I, 'and we've got singers there that can knock spots
out of your NILLOGGS and KELSONS and the rest of 'em.' So he just--"

RIVAL MANAGER. "My tear fellow, you shust mind dis. MAX vill lose all
his monish. NILSSON can't sing, my tear! She vanted me to encage her a
year ago, but I vouldn't do it. Dere ish no monish in her, now you mind
vot I says."

DISTINGUISHED TEACHER. "You call her an artist! Why, look here, if one
of my scholars were to phrase as wretchedly as she does, I'd never show
my face in public again. Her voice is so-so, but her school is simply
infamous."

CELEBRATED TEACHER. "Well, I don't mind saying that I never heard her
equal in point of quality of voice. She gives you pure tone, which is
what hardly any other singer does."

NINE TENTHS OF THE AUDIENCE. "She is perfectly lovely. There never was
anybody like her."

CONNOISSEUR, _(who really does know something about music, but who
actually has no prejudices.)_ "Her voice is such a one as MARGARET must
have had when she sang by her spinning-wheel, before fate threw her in
the way of FAUST. And these professional musicians will tear her
reputation to pieces among themselves! Why should musical people be, of
all others, most fond of discord?"

CRITIC. "There! those fools are determined to make her sing again. I
can't stand this. I'll see MAX once more, and if he don't do the right
thing, I'll say that NILSSON was played out in Europe before she came
here, and that she is a complete failure."

YOUNG MAN, "Sweetest! may I ask you one question?"

YOUNG LADY. "No
, you shan't. Will you keep quiet? Everybody is looking
at you."

EVERYBODY. "Sh! sh! sh!"

NILSSON sings again. As her delicious notes die out in the thunder of
applause, I make my way out of the Hall, into the clear and silent
night. For not even the witchery of VIEUXTEMPS'S violin is fit to mate
in memory with the peerless tones of NILSSON.

Here I meant to do some fine writing, but as this is PUNCHINELLO, and
not the "Easy Chair" of Harper's Magazine, I conquer the temptation.
Wherefore I accept the gratitude of my readers, and sign myself

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

Congestion at "The Sun."

PUNCHINELLO is pained to know that the circulation of his bewitching
contemporary, _The Sun_, is daily growing more and more languid.
Paralysis has set in, and the patient but seldom has the energy to
dictate the daily bulletin giving the state of his circulation.

 * * * * *

Only a Suggestion.

It will be bad enough for the Prussian Cavalrymen to water their horses
in the Seine, but if they go to driving their stakes in the Bois de
Boulogne, won't the Parisians think it looks a little like running
things into the ground?

 * * * * *

OUR MASTERS OF ART.

MR. PUNCHINELLO: The knights of the pencil and easel, having returned
from their usual visits to their summer haunts, and having exchanged the
blue skies and grassy vales of Nature for the smoky ceilings and dirty
floors of Art, (I believe that is the proper way to commence this kind
of an article,) your correspondent has visited a number of them, and has
obtained authentic accounts of their present occupations, and has also
been permitted to make slight sketches of some of their principal works.

BIERSTADT, as usual, is painting Yos. Having entirely exhausted the Yo
Semite, he is now at work on a grand picture of a Southdown Ewe, and
will soon commence a view of his studio,--at sunrise. He well deserves
his title of the Yeoman of Art.

JAMES HAMILTON, of Philadelphia, is painting a sunset. It may not be
generally known, but it is a fact, that he paints the sun every time i
t
sets. The following sketch will give a good idea of his next great
picture. The nails are inserted in the sun to keep it from going down
any further, and spoiling the scene.

[Illustration]

WILLIAM T. RICHARDS, of the same city, is hard at work on a picture
which is intended to represent, to the life, water in motion; a
specialty which he has lately adopted. It is entitled "A Scene on the
Barbary Coast; Water in Motion, Steamer in the Distance." The subjoined
sketch represents the general plan of the picture.

[Illustration]

Still another Philadelphia artist, Mr. ROTHERMEL, is very busy at a
great work. He is putting the finishing-touches to his vast painting of
the Battle of Gettysburg. On this enormous canvas may be seen correct
likenesses of all the principal generals, colonels, captains, majors,
first and second lieutenants, sergeant-majors, sergeants, corporals and
high privates who were engaged in that battle; and by the consummate
skill of the artist, each one of them, to the great gratification of
himself and his family, is placed prominently in the foreground. Such
distinguished success should meet appropriate reward, and it is now
rumored that the artist will soon be commissioned by Congress to paint
for the Rotunda of the Capitol a grand picture of our late civil war,
with all the incidents of that struggle, upon one canvas.

Of the artists who affect the "shaded wood," we learn that Mr. HENNESSY,
now absent in Europe, is drawing another "Booth." Whether this is
intended particularly for "Every Saturday," I cannot say, but I suppose
it will answer for any other week-day. At any rate, here is his last
"Booth."

[Illustration]

NAST is at work on a series of sarcastic pictures illustrating the
miseries of France. Most of them show how LOUIS NAPOLEON ought to finish
up his career and dynasty. In fact, should this gifted artist ever
travel among Bonapartists, he will certainly be hunted down in an
astounding manner, and the populace, adopting American customs, will
probably congregate to see him astrid
e a rail. Two of his smaller
studies are very interesting. One of them, called "An Astray," is simply
a ray of black light; and another, intended for the contemplation of
persons who desire light and airy pictures, is simply a portrait of
himself, entitled "A Nasturtium."

The well-known Miss EDMONIA LEWIS has been exhibiting her statue of
"HAGAR," in Chicago. As HAGAR was the first woman who suffered anything
like divorce, Chicago is a capital place for her statue, and Miss LEWIS
evidently knows what she is about. Her name reminds me that our great
landscapist, LEWIS, is at work on a picture which he calls "A Scene in
France after a Reign." This little sketch will give an idea of the
painting.

[Illustration]

Most of our other artists are also worthily engaged, but time, (I
believe that is the regular way to end an article of this kind) will not
permit present mention of them.

EFARES.

 * * * * *

HAM AND EGGS.

War always brings with it its signs and portents. A hen somewhere in
Virginia, according to a local paper, has lately produced an egg on the
white of which the word "War" was plainly written in black letters. Now,
when we consider that the career of LOUIS NAPOLEON was more or less
influenced by Ham, there is something very significant in the advent of
this providential egg; nor should we be surprised to learn, ere long,
that the same hen had laid another egg, this time with a Prussian yolk.

 * * * * *

Eheu! Strasbourg.

Reading an old traveller's description of the famous Cathedral of
Strasbourg, we note that he dwells particularly on its "fretted
windows."

Ah! yes. They have much to fret about, now, have these old windows; and
that makes us think whether the _larmiers_ of the roof over them do not
run real tears.

 * * * * *

"Lo" Cunning.

The cunning of the red Indian of the Plains.

 * * * * *

PETTICOAT GOVERNMENT.

A gaunt, tall, spectacled creature, gender feminine, number singular,
person first, case always possessive, that's the standard bearer; a
broomstick from the top of which floats a p
etticoat, that's the
standard. Under that standard march in the U.S. at least 20,000,000
feminines, and--horrible to relate--gal children are on the increase.

Certainly the devil must have invented petticoats. After EVE had
finished up that little apple job, she went into the petticoat business,
and--hence all our tears. Instantly petticoat government became a
possibility. Then, as her daughters became wiser, they invented the
weeping business, the swooning business, and the curtain lecture
business; they went for our pocket-books and they got them, and
petticoat government became a probability. Not satisfied with the
pocket-books, they are now going for the business by means of which we
fill the books, and oh, what a hankering they have for public pap! They
stick to the curtain lecture business, but now they do it before the
curtain. Alas, petticoat government is now a certainty!

It's all very well for you to talk about the grandeur of the governments
of BOADICEA, and ELIZABETH and CATHERINE, but I don't believe that BOA,
or LIZZY, or KATE would have been very nice as a companion, if she and
you were sitting before the fire, and she wanted stamps and was going
for them as a matter of business. Besides, there was only one of them at
a time, and they didn't trouble common people much, but in this
enlightened nineteenth century I have seen a poor, miserable, six foot
dry-goods clerk turned out of a retail store by a strapping little
female, who couldn't jump a counter worth shucks. I have seen him in his
misery industriously study "What I Know About Farming," squat on a farm
in the West, and bring himself, his wife, and four miserable offshoots
to the alms-house by endeavoring to apply the rules set down in "What I
Know About Farming" to 160 acres of land. I have seen the poor,
half-paid type-setters strike for their altars, their sires, and more
wages, and I have seen a troop of petticoats, with gal children inside
them, trot into the type-setter's place, so that the miserable
compositors were compelled to retur
n and starve on four or five dollars
a day. That's petticoat government with a vengeance. Putting your nose
to the grindstone isn't nice at any time, but it's awful when the gal
children turn.

But that is only the beginning. They have struck for bigger things. In
the expressive language of the immortal JOHNNY MILTON, they are going
for the whole hog. They want to vote; some of them have been caught
repeating already; they want to sit on juries, and they want to go to
Congress. Heaven forbid that any of them should ever reach the House of
Representatives! Imagine the size of the _Congressional Globe_ if we
should send women there! Why, there would be as great a dearth of paper
in Washington as there is now in Paris. They want to shave you, dress
you, doctor you into your coffins, preach a funeral discourse over your
remains, and then take your will into the Surrogate's Court and fight
over the little property they have left you.

They say all this means that they are our equals, and intend to show it.
Listen. In a town some hundreds of miles distant there is a law firm
whose sign reads thus:

 MRS. SMITH _and husband_.

Shades of our forefathers! Ghost of BLUEBEARD! Spirit of HENRY VIII! can
this thing be? Imagine old LABAN'S daughter starting in business, and
hanging out a sign something like this:

 +-------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | MRS. JACOB _and husband, |
 | Having large orders from the West_, |
 | SOLICIT CUSTOM. |
 | N.B.--Gentlemen attended to by Mr. JACOB. |
 | _The Original Mrs_. JACOB. |
 | |
 +-------------------------------------------+

Don't you suppose that JACOB, if he had found that sign over his
doorstep, would have raised a row, and if he had been overcome, don't
you suppose he would have wondered what he served those seven years for?

Oh, young man, sitting by the side of that dainty damsel, looking so
spoonily into her deep blue eyes, playing so daintily with her golden
curls, sucking honey so frequently from her ruby lips, beware! _beware!_
BEWARE! Remember, when she wa
nts stamps, you can't put her off as your
pa did your ma. You can't say, "Business is awful dull," because she'll
do the business, and make you her book-keeper or porter or something of
that sort

Petticoat government is all very well for those who like it. Some men go
through life playing a sort of insane tag, in which, first their
mothers' petticoats, and then their wives', are hunk, and they never
leave hunk. As for me, give me trouser government, or give me a first
class funeral procession with me for the corpse.

Brethren, listen! Give me your ears! (the big ones first.) This thing
must be stopped _now_. Let us form an association for the suppression of
women, or a society for the prevention of cruelty to men. There is but
one way to cure this thing. Far out on the Western prairies dwells the
only sensible man on this continent. In the city ruled by him a man may
come home as tired as gin can make him, and his wife opens not her
mouth; he may jump over as many counters as he pleases, and none of his
wives will desire to go and do likewise. There she is the weaker vessel,
and it takes so many of her to equal one man, that she is kept in a
proper state of subjection. That's the secret; marry her a good deal.
The old maids are the ones who start the rows. Let them all be married
to some one man of a peaceable, loving, quiet disposition--say WENDELL
PHILLIPS. Let the President, if necessary, issue his proclamation making
the United States one vast Utah, and let us all be Young.

LOT.

 * * * * *

RAMBLINGS.

BY MOSE SKINNER.

MR. PUNCHINELLO: If I should tell you that I particularly excelled in
writing verses you'd hardly believe me. But such is the fact. I've sent
poem after poem to all the first-class magazines in the country, which,
if they'd been published, would have enabled me to pay my debts, and
start new accounts from Maine to Georgia. But they've never been
published--and why? It's jealousy. A child with half an eye can see
that. Those boss poets who get the big salaries, probably see my verses,
and pa
y the publishers a big price not to print 'em.

How little the public know of the inside workings of these things!

I'm disgusted with this trickery, and am going to shut right down on the
whole thing. Oh! they may howl, but not another line do they get!

I'm going into the song business. That's something that isn't overdone.
I composed a perfect little gem lately. It is called "Lines on the death
of a child." I chose this subject because it is comparatively new. A few
have attempted it, but they betray a crudeness and lack of pathos
painful to witness.

Whether I have supplied that deficiency or not is for the public, not
me, to judge. But if the public, or any other man, be he male or female,
thinks that by ribaldry and derision I can be induced to publish the
whole of this work before it's copyrighted, they're mistaken. The salt
that's going on the tail of this particular fowl ain't ripe yet.

It's going to be set to music and it'll probably hatch a song. I called
on a publisher last week about it.

"Don't you think," said I, "that it'll take 'em by storm?"

"Worse than that," he replied. "It's a reg'lar _line_ gale."

I knew he'd be enthusiastic about it.

He said he hadn't got any notes in, that would fit it just then, but be
expected a lot in the next steamer, and I could have my choice. He was
very polite, and I thanked him kindly.

Jealous as I am of my reputation, I am willing to stake it on this poem.
A man don't collect the obituary notices of one hundred infants and boil
'em down over a slow fire without something to be proud of, you know.

Here is a sample of it:

 LINES ON THE DEATH OF A CHILD.

 "Tell me, dear mother,
 Hast the swallows homeward flode
 When the clock strikes nine?
 Does our WILLIE'S spirit roam
 In that home
 Beyond the skies,
 Along with LIZE?
 Say, mother
 Say--"

The other verses are, if anything, better than this. If you are anxious
to publish this poem entire, why not leave out the pictures and all the
reading matter from PUNCHINELLO for two weeks, and show the public what
gen
ius, brains, and ability can accomplish, unaided? If you publish it
in detachments, it weakens it, you see. If the verses can't lean against
each other, they pine away immediately.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE YOUNG DEMOC TRYING TO PUT THE BIG SACHEM'S PIPE OUT.

_Big Sachem_. "SAY, YOUNG MAN, AIN'T YOU AFRAID YOU'LL BURN YOUR
BREECHES?"]

 * * * * *

SARSFIELD YOUNG HAS HIS HEAD EXAMINED.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO:--The last time I visited a barber's shop I wanted my
hair trimmed. Being in somewhat of a hurry for the train, I told the
proprietor to cut it short. As a matter of course, I was left. As for my
hair, there was precious little of that left, though. Science was too
much for it. A hand-glass, brought to bear upon a mirror, opened up a
perspective of pretty much all the back country belonging to my skull,
that is seldom equalled outside the State Prison or the Prize Ring.

I was indignant. I was so mad that my hair stood on end--voluntarily.
The barber talked soothingly of making a discount on the bill; and I,
looking at it in a strictly diplomatic light, gradually permitted myself
to grow calmer. He went further, and did the handsome thing by me--as if
it wasn't enough to cut under his price! A phrenologist by profession,
so he said, he had resorted to barbering simply for amusement, and under
the circumstances he would give me a professional sitting gratuitously.

It has always been a cherished ambition with me to have my head surveyed
and staked out scientifically; SO I told him at once he might take it
and look it over.

"My friend," said I, as I gracefully described an imaginary aureole
about my brain factory, "you abolish the poll-tax. I grant you full
leave to explore."

This was the first time I ever had my head examined. The whole of me, it
is true, was once examined before a Trial Justice; but as that was years
ago, and it was "the other boy" that was to blame, I refrain from
incorporating the details into the history of our country.

It occurred to me that old Scissors couldn't have been much of a

scholar; at all events he breathed very hard for an educated man, and he
had a rough, muscular way of moving his fingers about my upper story,
that made those regions ache every time he touched them. You may fancy
my feelings. I certainly didn't fancy _his_.

For the benefit of those who come after us, (I don't refer to Sheriffs
and Constables, so much as I do to posterity,) I append a few results of
the gentleman's vigorous researches.

 * * *

"There's a great deal of surface here; in fact, everybody that is
acquainted with this head must be struck at once with its superficial
contents."

"Thickness--obvious. Great breadth between the ears, indicating
longevity. You will never die of teething, or cholera infantum; nor is
it likely you will ever become a murderess.

"Forehead, large and imposing; that is, it might impose on people who
don't know you.

"Your intellect may be pronounced massive, dropsical, in fact. You have
brilliant talents, but your bump of cash payments is remarkably small.

"Locality, 20 to 30. You are always somewhere, or just going there.
Eventuality, 18 carat fine; absorption, 99 per cent. This means you will
eventually absorb a good deal of borrowed money.

"I find here acquisitiveness and secretiveness enough to stock an entire
Board of Aldermen and a Congressional Committee."

"Ambition, combativeness, and destructiveness are all on a colossal
scale. Happily they are balanced by gigantic caution, else you would be
in imminent danger of subverting the liberties of your country.

"If I owned that sanguine temperament of yours, I should proceed at once
to marry into President GRANT'S family, and take some foreign mission.

"You're a good feeder. Alimentiveness and order well developed. No man
better fitted to order a waiter around. From the immature condition of
your organ of benevolence, I shouldn't care, however, to be the waiter.

"Self esteem doesn't seem to have been kept back by the drought.

"Ideality, I discover from the depression in the S. W. corner, is
missing. Nature beautifully
 compensates this loss by making language
very full--more words than ideas. In profane language, I dare say, now,
you are particularly gifted.

"In one respect your head resembles that of the Father of His Country.
It lacks adhesiveness. So does GEORGE'S--on the postage stamps.

"Unlike most subjects, your organ of firmness is not confined to any one
spot, but is spread over the entire skull. This phenomenon is due to
your being what we technically call 'mule-headed'--a fine specimen
which--"

"Excuse me," said I, unwilling any longer to impose on his good nature,
"I feel I must make sure of that other train, so I will just trouble you
for that organ of firmness and the rest of them. I never travel without
them." Then, hurrying all my phrenology into my hat, I started down the
street.

I wonder he didn't say something about my memory's being below
par--somehow I quite forgot to pay him for shaving me.

Yours, without recourse,

SARSFIELD YOUNG.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: VERY "HARD CIDER."

THE PIPPINS OF THE JOHN REAL DEMOCRACY, (MESSRS. MORRISSEY, O'BRIEN, AND
FOX,) GETTING THEIR LAST SQUEEZE FROM GOVERNOR HOFFMAN.]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN IN GOTHAM.

He Strays among Sharpers, and "Sees the Elephant."

There's many things in the big city which pleases me, and causes us
_all_ to feel hily tickled over our success as a Republic.

At the present writin', many furrin' nations would give all their old
butes and shoes if, like us, they could throw their roolers overboard
every 4 years, and have a new deel.

Our institutions are, many of 'em, sound: altho' I've diskivered to my
sorrer, that some of the inhabitants of New York are about as
puselanermus a set of dead-beats which ever stood up.

While sojernin' here, my distinguished looks kicked up quite a sensation
wherever I put in an appearance. On one occasion, a man stepped up to me
who thought I was a banker, and richer than Creosote, and wanted me to
change a $100 bill. I diden't do it. Not much. No, sir-ee!--they
coulden't fool the old man on that ancient dodg
e.

But, friend PUNCHINELLO, to my disgust and shagrin', I must acknolidge
the corn, and say, I hain't quite so soon as I allers give myself credit
for bein', as the sekel of this letter will show.

Last Saturday P.M. I was a sailin' down Dye Street with my bloo cotton
umbreller under my arm, feelin' all so fine and so gay.

When near the corner of West Street I turned around just in time to see
a ragged boy pick up a pocket-book.

As the afoursaid boy started to run off, a well dressed lookin' man
ketched him by the cote coller.

"What in thunder are you about?" says the boy.

"That pocket-book belongs to this old gentleman," said the man, pintin'
to me. "I saw him drop it."

"No it don't, nether," said the boy, tryin' to break away, "and I want
yer to let go my cote coller."

The infatuated youth then tried his level best to jerk away, while his
capturer yanked and cuffed him, ontil the boy sot up a cryin'.

I notissed as the youth turned around that he partly opened the wallet,
which was chock full of greenbax.

A thought suddenly struck me. That 'ere boy looked as if he was depraved
enuff to steel the shoe-strings off'n the end of a Chinaman's cue, so
the Monongohalian's hair woulden't stay braided.

Thinks I, if the young raskel should keep that pocket-book, like as not
he mite buy a fashinable soot of close and enter on a new career of
crime, and finally fetch up as a ward polertician.

I must confess, that as I beheld that wallet full of bills, my mouth did
water rather freely, and I made up my mind, if wuss come to wusser, I
would not allow too much _temptashun_ to get in that boy's way. The man
turned to me and says:

"Stranger, this is your pocket-book, for I'le swear I saw you drop it."

What could a poor helpless old man like me do in euch a case, Mister
PUNCHINELLO? That man was willin' to sware that I dropped it, and I
larnt enuff about law, when I was Gustise of the Peece, to know I
coulden't swear I diden't drop it, and any court would decide agin me;
at the same time my hands itched to get holt o
f the well filled wallet.

I trembled all over for fear a policeman, who was standin' on the
opposite corner, mite come over and stick in his lip.

But no! like the wooden injuns before cigar stores, armed with a
tommyhawk and scalpin' knife, these city petroleums, bein' rather
slippery chaps, hain't half so savage as they look.

When the boy heerd the man say I owned the pocket-book he caved in, and
began to blubber. Said he, whimperin':

"Well--I--want--a--re--ward--for--findin' the--pocket-bo--hoo--ok."

The well dressed individual, still holdin' onto the boy, then said to
me:

"My friend, I'me a merchant, doin' bizziness on Broadway, at 4-11-44.
You've had a narrer escape from losin' your pocket-book. Give this rash
youth $50, to encourage him in bein' honest in the futer, and a glorious
reward awaits you. Look at me, sir!" said he, vehemently; "the turnin'
pint of my life was similar to this depraved youth's; but, sir! a reward
from a good lookin', beneverlent old gent like you, made a man of me,
and to-day I'me President of a Society for the _Penny-Ante_ corruption
of good morrils,' and there hain't a judge in the city who wouldn't give
me a home for the pleasure of my company."

Such a man, I knew, woulden't lie about seein' me drop that pocket-book.
I took another look at the Guardian (?) of the public peace, morrils,
etc., who, when he was on his _Beat_, haden't the least objection to
anybody else bein' on _their beat_. He wasen't lookin' our way, but was
star-gazin', seein' if the sines was rite for him to go and take another
drink.

"You are sure you saw me drop this wallet?" said I, addressin' the
President of the Penny-antee Society.

"I'le take my affidavy on it," said he.

I pulled out $50 and handed it to the boy, who handed me the pocket-book.

"Mrs. GREEN! Mrs. GREEN!" soliloquised I, as I walked away, feelin' as
rich as if I held a good fat goverment offis, "if you could only see
your old man now, methinks you'd feel sorry that you hid all of his
close one mornin' last spring, so he coulden't g
o and attend a barn
raisin'. Yes, madam, your talented husband has struck ile."

I stepped in a stairway to count my little fortin. I was very much
agitated. The wallet was soon opened; when--

"Ye ministers fallen from grace, defend us!" was the first exclamation
which bust 4th from my lips; for I hope to be flambusticated if I hadn't
gone and paid $50 for a lot of brown paper, rapt up into patent medesin
advertisements, printed like greenbax.

For a few minnits I was crazier than a loon.

I rusht madly into the street, runnin' into an old apple woman, nockin'
her "gally west."

I quickly jumped to my feet and begun hollerin':

"Murder! Thieves! Robbers!"

The Policemen scattered, while a crowd of ragged urchins colected about
me. "My youthful vagabones," roared I, as loud as I could scream, "bring
along your stuffed wallets. The market price of brown paper is $50 an
ounce on call.--If you are lookin' for a greenhorn, I'me your man."

I then broke my umbreller over a lamp-post, and button-hold a passer by,
offerin him a $100 if he'd send me to a loonatic asilum.

Seein' a sine on the opposite corner which read: "Weigher's Office," I
rusht wildly in, and said to a man:

"Captin, I've been _litened_. If you've got such a thing as a pair of
apothecary's scales about your premises, dump me on and give me the
figgers."

I then tried to jump through a winder, but the man caught me by the cote
tails, and haulin' me back, sot me down into a cheer.

I soon got cooled down, when I told the man how I'de been swindled, and
asked him what I had better do.

"Do?" said he, laffin' as if heed bust. "My advice is, for you to take
the next train for your home, and then charge your loss to the acc't of
seein' the elefant."

It hain't often I git took in, but that time I was swallered,
specturcals, white hat and all, as slick as if I'de been buttered all
over.

I don't intend to let Mrs. GREEN know anything about this little
adventoor, but just as like as not, some day when I hain't thinking she
will worm it out of me, when Mariar 
will no doubt say:

"Sarved you rite, you old ignoramus; that's what you git for stoppin'
takin' the weekly noosepapers, because they won't print the darned
nonsents you set up to rite, when you orter be to bed and asleep."

Ewers, lite as a fether,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._

 * * * * *

A Serious Complication.

The English language is a "mighty onsartin" one. Here, now, in a
magazine sketch, we find it stated that one of the characters of the
story was "as rich as CROESUS, and a good fellow to boot." Vernacularly,
this is correct; and yet so equivocal is it that it puzzles one to think
why the acquisition of wealth should subject the holder of it to the
liability of being kicked.

 * * * * *

Enough Said.

"Modern physiologists," said the Doctor, "have arrived at the conclusion
that man begins as a cell."

"And what about woman?" returned the Scalper, "doesn't she begin as a
sell, continue as a sell, and depart as a sell?"

"She does," replied the doctor.

 * * * * *

A Relative Question.

Would the marriage of a Daughter of a Canon to a Son of a Gun come
within the laws prohibiting marriage between relatives too nearly
connected?

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE (JOHN) REAL DEMOCRACY OF NEW YORK CITY.]

 * * * * *

A CRABBED HISTORY.

Most people have a peculiar fondness for crabs. A dainty succulent soft
shell crab, nicely cooked and well browned, tempts the eye of the
epicure and makes his mouth water. Even a hard shell is not to be
despised when no other is attainable. We eat them with great gusto,
thinking they are "so nice," without considering for a moment that they
have feelings and sentiments of their own, or are intended for any other
purpose than the gratification of our palate. But that is a mistake
which I will try to rectify in order that the _bon vivant_ may enjoy
hereafter the pleasures of a mental and bodily feast conjointly.

Most crabs are hatched from eggs, and begin life in a very small way.
They float round in the water, at first, without really knowing what
they are 
about. They have but little sense to start with, but after a
while improve and begin to strike out in a blind instinctive way, which,
after a few efforts, resolves itself into real genuine swimming. They
commence walking about the same time. Awkward straggling steps, to be
sure, but they get over the ground, and that is the most they care for.

When they are about a month old they begin to feel that life has its
realities, and that they must do something towards the end for which
they were made. The thought is faint at first, but by degrees grows
weightier, till at last they can stand it no longer, and, making a great
effort to throw off the incubus of babyhood that weighs so heavily upon
them, they burst open the back door of their shell and slowly creep out
backwards. It takes about five minutes for them to get entirely out,
head, legs and all, and then for a moment or two they gaze in
stupefaction at their old shell, amazed to find that they have, by their
own efforts, unaided and alone, accomplished such a wonderful change.

The thought is overwhelming. It fills them with pride; rejoicingly they
exult, and swell with gratification. This state of self-gratulation
lasts about twenty minutes, at the end of which time they have increased
their bulk to nearly double its former size, and they remain so.

They can't get back into the old shell now, for it won't fit them, and
as there is no other for them to go into, the only thing left for them
to do is to build another house.

It takes three or four days before they get fairly to work, and during
this time they are called soft-shell crabs. This stage is particularly
dangerous to the delicate creatures, for they, in their tender beauty,
are so attractive to hungry fishes that it is really a wonder any
escape. Tender, helpless, innocent and beautiful, they are almost sure
to be victimized and gormandized.

Some, however, escape the fate intended for them, and in a few days
begin to enjoy life in a crabbed sort of a way. Another month passes on.
They become restless a
nd uneasy, and feel that it won't do to stay too
long in one place. They think they had better make another change, and
so this time, in a more self-confident manner, they pack up and move out
at the back door again. They are no more provident now, however, than
they were at first, for, after having given up the old house, they have
no new one to move into. They are not troubled as we are with
house-hunting; they are good builders, and can make one to suit
themselves. A wise provision of nature, for these interesting creatures
are really obliged monthly to go out doors to grow.

This state is to them doubly dangerous. Mankind they always have to
fear, but now they are tempting to their own race. A wicked old crab
goes out for a stroll. The walk gives him an appetite; he looks around
for something to eat and spies a younger brother just moving.
Treacherously be plants himself behind a stone or shell, and watches the
process, chuckling in his inmost stomach over the dainty meal in
prospect. The youthful one has just got clear of his old home and its
restraints, and is delighting in his freedom, when up walks the vampire,
strikes him a blow on his defenceless head, knocks the life out of him,
and then sits down to a dinner of soft-shell crab. He is an old
sportsman, and enjoys exceedingly the meal gained by his own prowess.

Dinner over, he wipes his claws on the muddy table-cloth and walks out
for his digestion. Off in the distance he spies a young gentleman crab
making love to a beautiful female. He looks at her with a discriminating
eye. Sees she is fair to look upon, and thinks he would like to be
acquainted. He makes several sideway moves in the direction, ungraceful,
but satisfactory to himself, and as he advances his admiration
increases, his courage improves; he feels almost heroic. The observant
lover with staring eyes perceives the advancing strides of another
gentleman crab, and instantly, seized with jealous fears, clasps his
_inamorata_ to his shelly breast with his numerous little legs, holds
her tight
ly so that she can't fall, and walks off on his hands.

The old cannibal observes the change of base, feels insulted at the
implied distrust, and resolves to have satisfaction. Increasing his
efforts, he soon overtakes the runaway lovers, challenges his rival by
giving him a dig with his claw, and tells him to "come out and show
himself a crab." Of course no crab of spirit is going to receive an
insult before his beloved and not resent it; with one painful quiver of
his little legs, he sets the lady crab down, and then the two amorous
lovers proceed to deadly combat. Love strengthens the young crab's
heart. Justice nerves his arm; and soon a lucky blow from the sharp claw
pierces in a vital part the hardened sinner, who, with a gulp, gives up
the contest and his life at once.

An exultant shout bubbles up in the water, and then the heroic defender
of crabbed maidenhood leads his beloved to view the remains of this
ravager of hard-shell rights.

They rejoice over the fallen adversary a while, and then, to make their
happiness more complete, and to prosper his wooing, the victor invites
his love to dine on the tender part of the victim.

The invitation is gladly accepted, and they enjoy a delicious meal,
rendered doubly tasteful from the fact that they are feasting on an
enemy.

The facts deduced from the above history prove that crabs have tastes
and feelings just as mankind have. They are gallant to their females;
never engage in combat with the weaker sex; fight and kill each other
when angry; love good eating, and are cannibalistic--which last habit
they may have learned from their ancestors of the Feejee Islands.

 * * * * *

BAITED BREATH.--That of the boy who had "wums fur bait" in his mouth.

 * * * * *

OCTOBER JOTTINGS.

Attracted by the dulcet strains of a brass band, a day or two since,
PUNCHINELLO ascended to the summit of the N.E. tower of his residence,
looking from which he beheld a target company all with crimson shirts
ablaze marching up the Bowery. Then, glancing over towards Long Island,
he obse
rved that Nature was already assuming her russet robes, which
circumstance, combined with that of the target company, reminded him
that the shooting season had just commenced. A few hints to young
sportsmen, then, from so old a one as PUNCHINELLO, will not, be hopes,
be taken amiss--not even though, in shooting phrase, a miss is generally
as good as a mile.

Before taking the field, look well to your shooting-irons.
Fowling-pieces are far more apt to Get Foul while they are lying away
during the off season, than when they are taken out for a day's sport by
the fowlers.

On releasing your gun from its summer prison, always examine it
carefully, to ascertain whether it is loaded. This you can do by looking
down into the barrel and touching the trigger with your toe. If your
head is blown off, then you may be sure that the gun was loaded.
Otherwise not.

Should your gun be a breech-loader, always load it at the muzzle. This
will show that you know better than the man who made it, or, at least,
that he is no better than you.

If you are a novice in gunnery it will be safest for you to put the shot
in before the powder. By doing this you will not only provide against
possible accidents, but will secure for yourself the reputation of being
a very safe man to go out shooting with.

When you go out with your gun, always dress in a shootable costume. For
instance, if you want to bag lots of Dead Rabbits, TWEED will be the
best stuff you can wear--especially about November 8th, on which day you
will be certain to find Some Quail about the polling places. (N.B. They
are beginning to quail already.)

The best time to acquire the art of shooting flying is fly time. Always
carry a whiskey flask about you, so that you can practice at Swallows.

When you hear the drum of the ruffed grouse, steal silently through the
thicket and let drive in the direction of the sound. Should you bring
down a target company instead of a ruffed grouse, so much the better. It
will only be bagging ruffs of another kind, and by silencing their drums

you will have conferred an obligation upon humanity.

There is much diversity of opinion regarding the best kind of dog for
fowling purposes. It all depends upon what work you want your dog to do
for you. If you want to have birds pointed, a pointer is best for your
purpose. If set, a setter. But if you want a dog that will go in and
kill without either pointing or setting, be sure that the Iron Dog is
the dog for your money. You can procure one of Staunch Blood by
application at Police Head-Quarters.

Before going out for a day's sport, resolve yourself into a committee of
one for the preservation of choice ornithological specimens. By this we
do not mean that you are to set up in business as a taxidermist, but
that you are bound--if a true sportsman--to protect the song birds, and
the birds that are useful in destroying noxious vermin, and all the
beautiful feathered creatures that ornament our woods, and fields, and
parks, from the depredations of the ignorant, loutish, pestilent,
pernicious pot-hunter. The Sportsmen's Clubs that have been organized
throughout the country should be supported by every true sportsman; and
if you lay a thick stick vigorously across the back of the first fool
you see about to kill Cock Robin, you will have established a very
efficacious Sportsman's Club of your own, and will have earned the best
regards of Mr. PUNCHINELLO to boot--by which he means, if you choose,
that you have his leave and license to boot the fellow into the bargain.

 * * * * *

MORE ABOUT CHIGNONS.

The chignon is coming to the front again. By this we do not mean that it
is worn, or likely to be worn before--in saying which the word "before"
is not used by us in its acceptation of previously, but in that of
front; although, now that we come to think of it, the _chignon_
certainly has been worn before, as may be seen by consulting
old-fashioned prints, in which it is shown worn behind. This, to the
ordinary mind, may seem rather confused; and so it is; but what else
could you expect from a writer when he has go
t _chignon_ upon the brain?

For newspapers the _chignon_ is just now a teeming subject. Every day or
so somebody writes to a paper, saying that be has discovered a new kind
of parasite, hatched by the genial warmth of woman's nape from some
deleterious padding or other used in the manufacture of her _chignon_.
Sometimes it is vegetable stuff, sometimes animal, but it always teems
with pedicular creatures akin to that low and vulgar kind not usually
recognized in polite society. All these horrors come and and don't make
much difference in the _chignon_ market; but PUNCHINELLO has a new one
that is calculated to create a sensation--about the nape of the female
neck--and here it is.

In the beech forests of Hungary, as is well known to Danubian explorers,
there exists a very remarkable breed of pigs, one of their peculiarities
being that they are covered with wool instead of with bristles. These
pigs are shorn regularly every year, like sheep. Their wool, which is
very stiff and curly, is used for stuffing cushions and mattresses of
the cheap and nasty kind. Since _chignons_ have come into fashion, a
vast amount of pig's wool has been imported for their manufacture. By
microscopic investigation the wool of the Hungary pig has been found
swarming with _trichinae_; to a fearful extent. Now, it is easy to
imagine that the _trichinae_ obtained from a hungry pig must be of a
very insatiable and ravenous disposition, and this is but too often
realized by the silly wearers of the porcine _chignons_, into whose
brains, (when they happen to have any,) the horrible little parasites
worm their way in myriads, rendering their hapless victims pig-headed to
an extent that defies description either with pen or pencil.

The Pig-faced Woman exhibited some time ago in Europe was once a very
pretty girl, her hideous deformity being the result of wearing a
_chignon_ stuffed with Hungary pigs' wool.

In purchasing a pig _chignon_, then, the Girl of the Period had better
look out that she does not get "too much pork for a shilling."

 *
 * * * *

MATCHING THE MATCHLESS.

Matchmaking has always been traditionally supposed to be the chief end
of woman. No wonder that, with the spread of the new theories of woman's
rights, therefore, we find them invading departments of industry which
were formerly supposed to be peculiarly the domain of the stronger sex.
We have recently seen running matches, swimming matches, rowing matches,
and other fancy matches, made by women. And why not? The women are wise
in thus preparing themselves for proficiency in the arts of primary
elections, ballot stuffing and the rest, incidental to untrammelled
suffrage.

In regard to this, also, it may not be amiss to suggest that this
passion for match-making lies at the bottom of the recent increase in
divorce, which so alarms some timid moralists. Certain it is that easy
divorce enlarges the opportunities for its gratification, and to be
"fancy" and "free" is no longer a charm peculiar only to "maiden
meditation."

 * * * * *

HISTORY FACTORY.

Card to the Public.

The undersigned, having recently increased their facilities for the
manufacture of History upon an unusually large scale, would hereby
announce to their patrons and the public in general that they have
associated with them Messrs. VICTOR EMANUEL and General TROCHU.

LOUIS NAPOLEON,

M. BISMARCK,

WM. O'PRUSSIA,

 * * * * *

Commercial.

A proof of the present great depression in the Whaling business is the
fact that the editor of the _Sun_ still walks about unflogged.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: HORSE-CAR AMENITIES.

_Conductor_. "Wanted to get off, did you?--Then why in thunder didn't
you say so?"]

 * * * * *

THE CHOICE OF PARIS (IN AMERICA.)

 One drink, dear friend, before we part--
 Before I tempt the shining sea;
 One drink to pledge each constant heart--
 Yet stay, what shall the tipple be?

 My eyes are dazed with bar-room "signs"
 In which, I pray, shall friendship conquer?
 Can alien I drink "native" wines?
 Are Jew-lips Christian tipple, _mon coeur_?

 This "cobbler"--is't a heeling drink?
 A "smash" w
ere surely inauspicious;
 _Toute de-suite_, two "sours"--yet I think
 Ah! _qu'est-ce-qui c'est!_--acetate is vicious!

 _Garcon!_ two "skins"--the name is 'cute---
 You Yankees "twig" the pharmaceutical;
 But hold! art sure the flay-vor'll suit?
 Will it not smack too much of cuticle?

 No, boy, no "skins." Let's try some beer,
 A milder fluid for to-day;
 Ottawa bring us--_c'est a dire_,
 Some beer that keeps the 'ot away.

 No? Well, some ale: in limpid Bass
 We'll drown our thirst and parting grief;
 Come drink--_arretez!_ this _must_ pass--
 'Twould look too much like bas-relief!

 The hour arrives; our lips are dry;
 What _shall_ it be? Oh, name it for me!
 A _tasse_ of gin? I drink and fly
 To toss upon the ocean stormy.

 * * * * *

"NOTHING LIKE LEATHER."

Freedom of action is one of the greatest boons enjoyed by mankind in
modern days. Its rate of progress is encouraging, especially since the
Liberal Club of this city has taken it under its protection. It is a
very significant association, is the Liberal Club; rather iconoclastic,
to be sure, but only a little ahead of the times, perhaps, in that
respect; Some of our cherished forms of speech have already been
rendered obsolete by the Liberal Club. It used to be such a clincher to
say, when one wanted to enforce a point by indicating an impossibility,
"I will eat my boots unless"--etc., etc. That clincher has gone to the
place whither good clinchers go, forever. At a late meeting of the
Liberal Club, Professor VAN DER WEYDE contributed to the evening
collation a pudding made of an old boot. The pudding was garnished with
the wooden pegs that had kept the boot together, sole and body, while it
walked the earth. The boot-jack with which the original source of the
pudding used to be pulled off was also exhibited, and excited great
interest. It is the intention, of the Professor to subject this
implement to some process by which it will be resolved into farina, or
sawdust, and then to make a Jack Pudding of it. Many of the ladies and
gentlemen present partoo
k of the boot pudding, and pronounced it
excellent. One lady, (a member of Sorosis, we believe,) said that she
thought it tasted like a pear. The Professor assured her, however, that
he had used but one boot in making it, not a pair. Altogether, the
pudding was a success. Freedom of action had been vindicated, and the
absurd prejudice that had hitherto prevented men from utilizing their
old boots as food, except in extreme cases, was shattered with one blow.

 * * * * *

PANOPLY FOR OUR POLICE.

PUNCHINELLO felicitates the Municipal Police Force on the magnificent
new shields with which the manly breasts of its members are decorated.
Nevertheless, PUNCHINELLO considers it sheer mockery to call that a
shield by which nothing is shielded. A buckle might as well be called a
buckler as the policeman's badge a shield. Already our noble skirmishers
of the side-walk are fully provided for the offensive, and, considering
the risks run by them from the roughs, the toughs and the gruffs, it is
high time that they were furnished with something in the defensive line.
Curb-chain undershirts have been suggested, but an objection to their
use is that links of them are apt to be carried into the interior
anatomy by pistol bullets, thus introducing a surplus of iron into the
blood,--an accession which is apt to steel the heart of the officer thus
experimented on, and so render him deaf to the cries of innocence in
distress. PUNCHINELLO suggests, then, that the policeman's shield should
_be_ a shield. Let it be made sufficiently large to cover the most
vulnerable portion of the person, as shown in the annexed design. If
made of gong-metal, so much the better, as the wearer could then ring
out signals upon it with his locust far more effectively than by the
present ridiculous mode of beating up rowdydow upon the flag-stones.
Although our gallant Municipal Blue is never backward in facing danger,
yet it might be judicious for him to wear a shield upon his back as well
as upon his front, because it is just possible that, in case of a
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Tapio Riikonen
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE WORKS OF APHRA BEHN, VOL. III

EDITED BY MONTAGUE SUMMERS

MCMXV

CONTENTS:

THE TOWN-<DW2>; OR, SIR TIMOTHY TAWDREY
THE FALSE COUNT
THE LUCKY CHANCE; OR, AN ALDERMAN'S BARGAIN
THE FORC'D MARRIAGE; OR, THE JEALOUS BRIDEGROOM
THE EMPEROR OF THE MOON
NOTES

THE TOWN-<DW2>; OR, SIR TIMOTHY TAWDREY.

ARGUMENT.

Sir Timothy Tawdrey is by the wishes of his mother and the lady's father
designed for Celinda, who loves Bellmour, nephew to Lord Plotwell. A
coxcomb of the first water, Sir Timothy receives a sharp rebuff when he
opens his suit, and accordingly he challenges Bellmour, but fails to
appear at the place of meeting. Celinda's old nurse, at night, admits
Bellmour to her mistress' chamber, where they are surprized by
Friendlove, her brother, who is, however, favourable to the union, the
more so as he is a friend of Bellmour, and they have but newly returned
from travelling together in Italy. Lord Plotwell warmly welcomes his
nephew home, and proceeds to unfold his design of giving him his niece
Diana in marriage. When he demurs, the old lord threatens to deprive him
of his estate, and he is compelled eventually to acquiesce in the
matrimonial schemes of his guardian. Bellmour sends word to Celinda, who
replies in a heart-broken letter; and at the wedding feast Friendlove,
who himself is deeply enamoured of Diana, appears in disguise to observe
the traitor. He is followed by his sister disguised as a boy, and upon
Friendlove's drawing on Bellmour a scuffle ensues which, however, ends
without harm. In the nuptial chamber Bellmour informs Diana that he
cannot love her and she quits him maddened with rage and disappointment.
Sir Timothy serenades the newly-mated pair and is threatened by
Bellmour, whilst Celinda, who has been watching the house, attacks the
<DW2> and his fiddlers. During the brawl Diana issuing forth meets
Celinda, and taking her for a boy leads her into the house and shortly
makes advances of love. They are interrupted by
 Friendlove, disguised,
and he receives Diana's commands to seek out and challenge Bellmour. At
the same time he reveals his love as though he told the tale of another,
but he is met with scorn and only bidden to fight the husband who has
repulsed her. Bellmour, meantime, in despair and rage at his misery
plunges into reckless debauchery, and in company with Sir Timothy visits
a bagnio, where they meet Betty Flauntit, the knight's kept mistress,
and other cyprians. Hither they are tracked by Charles, Bellmour's
younger brother, and Trusty, Lord Plotwell's old steward. Sharp words
pass, the brothers fight and Charles is slighted wounded. Their Uncle
hears of this with much indignation, and at the same time receiving a
letter from Diana begging for a divorce, he announces his intention to
further her purpose, and to abandon wholly Charles and Phillis, his
sister, in consequence of their elder brother's conduct. Sir Timothy,
induced by old Trusty, begins a warm courtship of Phillis, and arranges
with a parasite named Sham to deceive her by a mock marriage. Sham,
however, procures a real parson, and Sir Timothy is for the moment
afraid he has got a wife without a dowry or portion. Lord Plotwell
eventually promises to provide for her, and at Diana's request, now she
recognizes her mistake in trying to hold a man who does not love her,
Bellmour is forgiven and allowed to wed Celinda as soon as the divorce
has been pronounced, whilst Diana herself rewards Friendlove with
her hand.

SOURCE.

_The Town-<DW2>; or, Sir Timothy Tawdrey_ is materially founded upon
George Wilkins' popular play, _The Miseries of Enforced Marriage_ (4to,
1607, 1611, 1629, 1637), reprinted in Dodsley. Sir Timothy himself is
moulded to some extent upon Sir Francis Ilford, but, as Geneste aptly
remarks, he may be considered a new character. In the older drama,
Clare, the original of Celinda, dies tragically of a broken heart. It
cannot be denied that Mrs. Behn has greatly improved Wilkins' scenes.
The well-drawn character of Betty Flauntit is her o
wn, and the
realistically vivacious bagnio episodes of Act iv replace a not very
interesting or lively tavern with a considerable accession to wit and
humour, although perhaps not to strict propriety.

THEATRICAL HISTORY.

_The Town-<DW2>; or, Sir Timothy Tawdrey_ was produced at the Duke's
Theatre, Dorset Garden, in September, 1676. There is no record of its
performance, and the actors' names are not given. It was a year of
considerable changes in the company, and any attempt to supply these
would be the merest surmise.

THE TOWN-<DW2>;
or, Sir _Timothy Tawdrey_.

PROLOGUE.

_As Country Squire, who yet had never known
The long-expected Joy of being in Town;
Whose careful Parents scarce permitted Heir
To ride from home, unless to neighbouring Fair;
At last by happy Chance is hither led,
To purchase Clap with loss of Maidenhead;
Turns wondrous gay, bedizen'd to Excess;
Till he is all Burlesque in Mode and Dress:
Learns to talk loud in Pit, grows wily too,
That is to say, makes mighty Noise and Show.

So a young Poet, who had never been
Dabling beyond the Height of Ballading;
Who, in his brisk Essays, durst ne'er excel
The lucky Flight of rhyming Doggerel,
Sets up with this sufficient Stock on Stage,
And has, perchance, the luck to please the Age.
He draws you in, like cozening Citizen;
Cares not how bad the Ware, so Shop be fine.

As tawdry Gown and Petticoat gain more
(Tho on a dull diseas'd ill-favour'd Whore)
Than prettier Frugal, tho on Holy-day, |
When every City-Spark has leave to play_, |
--Damn her, she must be sound, she is so gay; |
_So let the Scenes be fine, you'll ne'er enquire
For Sense, but lofty Flights in nimble Wire.
--What we present to Day is none of these,
But we cou'd wish it were, for we wou'd please,
And that you'll swear we hardly meant to do:
Yet here's no Sense; Pox on't, but here's no Show;
But a plain Story, that will give a Taste
Of what your Grandsires lov'd i'th' Age that's past_.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE.

MEN.

Lord _Plotwell_.
_Bellmour_, Nephew to the Lord _Plotwell_, contracted to _C
elinda_.
_Charles_, Brother to _Bellmour_.
_Friendlove_, Brother to _Celinda_, in love with _Diana_.
Sir _Timothy Tawdrey_, a <DW2>-Knight, design'd to marry _Celinda_.
_Sham_, | Hangers on to Sir _Timothy_.
_Sharp_, |
_Trusty_, An old Steward to _Bellmour's_ Family.
Page to _Bellmour_.
Page to Lord _Plotwell_.
Sir _Timothy's_ Page.
Guests, Dancers, Fiddlers, and Servants.

WOMEN.

The Lady _Diana_, Niece to the Lord _Plotwell_.
_Celinda_, Sister to _Friendlove_, contracted to _Bellmour_.
_Phillis_, Sister to _Bellmour_.
_Betty Flauntit_, kept by Sir _Timothy_.
_Driver_, A Bawd.
_Jenny_, | Two Whores
_Doll_, |
_Nurse_,
Ladies and Guests.

SCENE, _Covent-Garden_.

ACT I.

SCENE I. _The Street_.

 _Enter Sir_ Timothy Tawdrey, Sham, _and_ Sharp.

Sir _Tim_. Hereabouts is the House wherein dwells the Mistress of my
Heart; for she has Money, Boys, mind me, Money in abundance, or she were
not for me--The Wench her self is good-natur'd, and inclin'd to be
civil: but a Pox on't--she has a Brother, a conceited Fellow, whom the
World mistakes for a fine Gentleman; for he has travell'd, talks
Languages, bows with a _bonne mine_, and the rest; but, by Fortune, he
shall entertain you with nothing but Words--

_Sham_. Nothing else!--

Sir _Tim_. No--He's no Country-Squire, Gentlemen, will not game, whore;
nay, in my Conscience, you will hardly get your selves drunk in his
Company--He treats A-la-mode, half Wine, half Water, and the rest--But
to the Business, this Fellow loves his Sister dearly, and will not trust
her in this leud Town, as he calls it, without him; and hither he has
brought her to marry me.

_Sham_. A Pox upon him for his Pains--

Sir _Tim_. So say I--But my Comfort is, I shall be as weary of her, as
the best Husband of 'em all. But there's Conveniency in it; besides, the
Match being as good as made up by the old Folks in the Country, I must
submit--The Wench I never saw yet, but they say she's handsom--But no
matter for that, there's Money, my Boys.

_Sharp_. Well, Sir, we will follow you--but as dolefully as 
People do
their Friends to the Grave, from whence they're never to return, at
least not the same Substance; the thin airy Vision of a brave good
Fellow, we may see thee hereafter, but that's the most.

Sir _Tim_. Your Pardon, sweet _Sharp_, my whole Design in it is to be
Master of my self, and with part of her Portion to set up my Miss,
_Betty Flauntit_; which, by the way, is the main end of my marrying; the
rest you'll have your shares of--Now I am forc'd to take you up Suits at
treble Prizes, have damn'd Wine and Meat put upon us, 'cause the
Reckoning is to be book'd: But ready Money, ye Rogues! What Charms it
has! makes the Waiters fly, Boys, and the Master with Cap in
Hand--excuse what's amiss, Gentlemen--Your Worship shall command the
best--and the rest--How briskly the Box and Dice dance, and the ready
Money submits to the lucky Gamester, and the gay Wench consults with
every Beauty to make her self agreeable to the Man with ready Money! In
fine, dear Rogues, all things are sacrific'd to its Power; and no Mortal
conceives the Joy of Argent Content. 'Tis this powerful God that makes
me submit to the Devil, Matrimony; and then thou art assur'd of me, my
stout Lads of brisk Debauch.

_Sham_. And is it possible you can be ty'd up to a Wife? Whilst here in
_London_, and free, you have the whole World to range in, and like a
wanton Heifer, eat of every Pasture.

Sir _Tim_. Why, dost think I'll be confin'd to my own dull Enclosure?
No, I had rather feed coarsely upon the boundless Common; perhaps two or
three days I may be in love, and remain constant, but that's the most.

_Sharp_. And in three Weeks, should you wed a _Cynthia_, you'd be a
Monster.

Sir _Tim_. What, thou meanest a Cuckold, I warrant. God help thee! But a
Monster is only so from its Rarity, and a Cuckold is no such strange
thing in our Age.

 _Enter_ Bellmour _and_ Friendlove.

But who comes here? _Bellmour!_ Ah, my little dear Rogue! how dost thou?
--_Ned Friendlove_ too! Dear Lad, how dost thou too? Why, welcome to
Town, i'faith, and I'm glad to
 see you both.

_Friend_. Sir _Timothy Tawdrey!_--

Sir _Tim_. The same, by Fortune, dear _Ned_: And how, and how, Man, how
go Matters?

_Friend_. Between who, Sir?

Sir _Tim_. Why, any Body, Man; but, by Fortune, I'm overjoy'd to meet
thee: But where dost think I was going?

_Friend_. Is't possible one shou'd divine?

Sir _Tim_. Is't possible you shou'd not, and meet me so near your
Sister's Lodgings? Faith, I was coming to pay my Respects and Services,
and the rest--Thou know'st my meaning--The old Business of the
Silver-World, _Ned_; by Fortune, it's a mad Age we live in, _Ned_; and
here be so many--wicked Rogues, about this damn'd leud Town, that,
'faith, I am fain to speak in the vulgar modish Style, in my own
Defence, and railly Matrimony and the rest.

_Friend_. Matrimony!--I hope you are so exactly refin'd a Man of the
Town, that you will not offer once to think of so dull a thing: let that
alone for such cold Complexions as _Bellmour_ here, and I, that have not
attain'd to that most excellent faculty of Keeping yet, as you, Sir
_Timothy_, have done; much to your Glory, I assure you.

Sir _Tim_. Who, I, Sir? You do me much Honour: I must confess I do not
find the softer Sex cruel; I am received as well as another Man of
my Parts.

_Friend_. Of your Money you mean, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. Why, 'faith, _Ned_, thou art i'th' right; I love to buy my
Pleasure: for, by Fortune, there's as much pleasure in Vanity and
Variety, as any Sins I know; What think'st thou, _Ned?_

_Friend_. I am not of your Mind, I love to love upon the square; and
that I may be sure not to be cheated with false Ware, I present 'em
nothing but my Heart.

Sir _Tim_. Yes, and have the Consolation of seeing your frugal huswifery
Miss in the Pit, at a Play, in a long Scarf and Night-gown, for want of
Points, and Garniture.

_Friend_. If she be clean, and pretty, and drest in Love, I can excuse
the rest, and so will she.

Sir _Tim_. I vow to Fortune, _Ned_, thou must come to _London_, and be a
little manag'd: 'slife, Man, shouldst thou talk so alou
d in good
Company, thou wouldst be counted a strange Fellow. Pretty--and drest
with Love--a fine Figure, by Fortune: No, _Ned_, the painted Chariot
gives a Lustre to every ordinary Face, and makes a Woman look like
Quality; Ay, so like, by Fortune, that you shall not know one from
t'other, till some scandalous, out-of-favour'd laid-aside Fellow of the
Town, cry--Damn her for a Bitch--how scornfully the Whore regards
me--She has forgot since _Jack_--such a one, and I, club'd for the
keeping of her, when both our Stocks well manag'd wou'd not amount to
above seven Shillings six Pence a week; besides now and then a Treat of
a Breast of Mutton from the next Cook's.--Then the other laughs, and
crys--Ay, rot her--and tells his Story too, and concludes with, Who
manages the Jilt now; Why, faith, some dismal Coxcomb or other, you may
be sure, replies the first. But, _Ned_, these are Rogues, and Rascals,
that value no Man's Reputation, because they despise their own. But
faith, I have laid aside all these Vanities, now I have thought of
Matrimony; but I desire my Reformation may be a Secret, because, as you
know, for a Man of my Address, and the rest--'tis not altogether
so Jantee.

_Friend_. Sir, I assure you, it shall be so great a Secret for me, that
I will never ask you who the happy Woman is, that's chosen for this
great Work of your Conversion.

Sir _Tim_. Ask me--No, you need not, because you know already.

_Friend_. Who, I? I protest, Sir _Timothy_--

Sir _Tim_. No Swearing, dear _Ned_, for 'tis not such a Secret, but I
will trust my Intimates: these are my Friends, _Ned_; pray know
them--This Mr. _Sham_, and this--by Fortune, a very honest Fellow
[_Bows to 'em_] Mr. _Sharp_, and may be trusted with a Bus'ness that
concerns you as well as me.

_Friend_. Me! What do you mean, Sir _Timothy_?

Sir _Tim_. Why, Sir, you know what I mean.

_Friend_. Not I, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. What, not that I am to marry your Sister _Celinda_?

_Friend_. Not at all.

_Bel_. O, this insufferable Sot! [_Aside_.

_Friend_. My Sister, Sir, is 
very nice.

Sir _Tim_. That's all one, Sir, the old People have adjusted the matter,
and they are the most proper for a Negotiation of that kind, which saves
us the trouble of a tedious Courtship.

_Friend_. That the old People have agreed the matter, is more than
I know.

Sir _Tim_. Why, Lord, Sir, will you persuade me to that? Don't you know
that your Father (according to the Method in such Cases, being certain
of my Estate) came to me thus--Sir _Timothy Tawdrey_,--you are a young
Gentleman, and a Knight, I knew your Father well, and my right
worshipful Neighbour, our Estates lie together; therefore, Sir, I have a
desire to have a near Relation with you--At which, I interrupted him,
and cry'd--Oh Lord, Sir, I vow to Fortune, you do me the greatest
Honour, Sir, and the rest--

_Bel_. I can endure no more; he marry fair _Celinda_!

_Friend_. Prithee let him alone. [_Aside_.

Sir _Tim_. To which he answer'd--I have a good Fortune--have but my Son
_Ned_, and this Girl, call'd _Celinda_, whom I will make a Fortune,
sutable to yours; your honoured Mother, the Lady _Tawdrey_, and I, have
as good as concluded the Match already. To which I (who, though I say
it, am well enough bred for a Knight) answered the Civility thus--I vow
to Fortune, Sir--I did not swear, but cry'd--I protest, Sir, _Celinda_,
deserves--no, no, I lye again, 'twas merits--Ay, _Celinda_--merits a
much better Husband than I.

_Friend_. You speak more Truth than you are aware of. [_Aside_.]
Well, Sir, I'll bring you to my Sister; and if she likes you, as well as
My Father does, she's yours; otherwise, I have so much Tenderness for
her, as to leave her Choice free.

Sir _Tim_. Oh, Sir, you compliment. _Alons, Entrons.

 [Exeunt_.

SCENE II. _A Chamber_.

 _Enter_ Celinda, _and_ Nurse.

_Cel_. I wonder my Brother stays so long: sure Mr. _Bellmour_ is not
yet arriv'd, yet he sent us word he would be here to day. Lord, how
impatient I grow!

_Nur_. Ay, so methinks; if I had the hopes of enjoying so sweet a
Gentleman as Mr. _Bellmour_, I shou'd be so too--
But I am past it--Well,
I have had my Pantings, and Heavings, my Impatience, and Qualms, my
Heats, and my Colds, and my I know not whats--But I thank my Stars, I
have done with all those Fooleries.

_Cel_. Fooleries!--
Is there any thing in Life but Love?
Wou'dst thou praise Heaven for thy Being,
Without that grateful part of it?
For I confess I love.

_Nur_. You need not, your Sighs, and daily (nay, and nightly too)
Disorders, plainly enough betray the Truth.

_Cel_. Thou speak'st as if it were a Sin:
But if it be so, you your self help'd to make me wicked.
For e'er I saw Mr. _Bellmour_, you spoke the kindest things of him,
As would have mov'd the dullest Maid to love;
And e'er I saw him, I was quite undone.

_Nur_. Quite undone! Now God forbid it; what, for loving?
You said but now there was no Life without it.

_Cel_. But since my Brother came from _Italy_,
And brought young _Bellmour_ to our House,
How very little thou hadst said of him!
How much above thy Praise, I found the Youth!

_Nur_. Very pretty! You are grown a notable Proficient in Love--And you
are resolv'd (if he please) to marry him?

_Cel_. Or I must die.

_Nur_. Ay, but you know the Lord _Plotwell_ has the Possession of all
his Estate, and if he marry without his liking, has Power to take away
all his Fortune, and then I think it were not so good marrying him.

_Cel_. Not marrying him! Oh, canst thou think so poorly of me?
Yes, I would marry him, though our scanty Fortune
Cou'd only purchase us
A lonely Cottage, in some silent Place,
All cover'd o'er with Thatch,
Defended from the Outrages of Storms
By leafless Trees, in Winter; and from Heat,
With Shades, which their kind Boughs wou'd bear anew;
Under whose Covert we'd feed our gentle Flock,
That shou'd in gratitude repay us Food,
And mean and humble Clothing.

_Nur_. Very fine!

_Cel_. There we wou'd practise such degrees of Love,
Such lasting, innocent, unheard of Joys,
As all the busy World should wonder at,
And, amidst all their Glories, find none such.

_Nur_. Good lack! how prettily Love 
teaches his Scholars to prattle.--
But hear ye, fair Mrs. _Celinda_, you have forgot to what end and purpose
you came to Town; not to marry Mr. _Bellmour_, as I take it--but Sir
_Timothy Tawdrey_, that Spark of Men.

_Cel_. Oh, name him not--Let me not in one Moment
Descend from Heaven to Hell--
How came that wretched thing into thy Noddle?

_Nur_. Faith, Mistress, I took pity of thee, I saw you so elevated with
Thoughts of Mr. _Bellmour_, I found it necessary to take you down a
degree lower.

_Cel_. Why did not Heaven make all Men like lo _Bellmour_?
So strangely sweet and charming!

_Nur_. Marry come up, you speak well for your self;
Oh intolerable loving Creature!
But here comes the utmost of your Wishes.

_Cel_. My Brother, and _Bellmour_! with strange Men!

 _Enter_ Friendlove, Bellmour, _Sir_ Timothy, Sham, _and_ Sharp.

_Friend_. Sister, I've brought you here a Lover, this is the worthy
Person you have heard of, Sir _Timothy Tawdrey_.

Sir _Tim_. Yes, faith, Madam, I am Sir _Timothy Tawdrey_, at your
Service--Pray are not you Mrs. _Celinda Dresswell_?

_Cel_. The same, but cannot return your Compliment.

Sir _Tim_. Oh Lord, oh Lord, not return a Compliment. Faith, _Ned_, thy
Sister's quite spoil'd, for want of Town-Education; 'tis pity, for she's
devilish pretty.

_Friend_. She's modest, Sir, before Company; therefore these Gentlemen
and I will withdraw into the next Room.

_Cel_. Inhuman Brother! Will you leave me alone with this Sot?

_Friend_. Yes, and if you would be rid of the trouble of him, be not
coy, nor witty; two things he hates.

_Bel_. 'Sdeath! Must she be blown upon by that Fool?

_Friend_. Patience, dear _Frank_, a little while.

 [_Exeunt_ Friend. Bell. Sham _and_ Sharp.

 [Sir Timothy _walks about the Room, expecting when_
 Celinda _should speak_.

_Cel_. Oh, dear Nurse, what shall I do?

_Nur_. I that ever help you at a dead Lift, will not fail you now.

Sir _Tim_. What a Pox, not a Word?

_Cel_. Sure this Fellow believes I'll begin.

Sir _Tim_. Not yet--sure she has spoke her last--

_Nu
r_. The Gentleman's good-natur'd, and has took pity on you, and will
not trouble you, I think.

Sir _Tim_.--Hey day, here's Wooing indeed--Will she never begin, trow?
--This some would call an excellent Quality in her Sex--But a pox on't,
I do not like it--Well, I see I must break Silence at last--Madam--not
answer me--'shaw, this is mere ill breeding--by Fortune--it can be
nothing else--O' my Conscience, if I should kiss her, she would bid me
stand off--I'll try--

_Nur_. Hold, Sir, you mistake your Mark.

Sir _Tim_. So I should, if I were to look in thy mouldy Chaps, good
Matron--Can your Lady speak?

_Nur_. Try, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. Which way?

_Nur_. Why, speak to her first.

Sir _Tim_. I never knew a Woman want a Cue for that; but all that I
Have met with were still before-hand with me in tittle tattle.

_Nur_. Likely those you have met with may, but this is no such
Creature, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. I must confess, I am unus'd to this kind of Dialogue; and
I am an Ass, if I know what to say to such a Creature.
--But come, will you answer me to one Question?

_Cel_. If I can, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. But first I should ask you if you can speak? For that's a
Question too.

_Cel_. And if I cannot, how will you be answer'd?

Sir _Tim_. Faith, that's right; why, then you must do't by signs.

_Cel_. But grant I can speak, what is't you'll ask me?

Sir _Tim_. Can you love?

_Cel_. Oh, yes, Sir, many things; I love my Meat, I love abundance of
Adorers, I love choice of new Clothes, new Plays; and, like a right
Woman, I love to have my Will.

Sir _Tim_. Spoke like a well-bred Person, by Fortune: I see there's
hopes of thee, Celinda; thou wilt in time learn to make a very
fashionable Wife, having so much Beauty too. I see Attracts, and
Allurements, wanton Eyes, the languishing turn of the Head, and all
That invites to Temptation.

_Cel_. Would that please you in a Wife?

Sir _Tim_. Please me! Why, Madam, what do you take me to be? a Sot?--
a Fool?--or a dull _Italian_ of the Humour of your Brother?--No, no,
I can assure you, she that ma
rries me, shall have Franchise--But, my
pretty Miss, you must learn to talk a little more--

_Cel_. I have not Wit, and Sense enough, for that.

Sir _Tim_. Wit! Oh la, O la, Wit! as if there were any Wit requir'd
in a Woman when she talks; no, no matter for Wit, or Sense: talk but
loud, and a great deal to shew your white Teeth, and smile, and be very
confident, and 'tis enough--Lord, what a Sight 'tis to see a pretty
Woman Stand right up an end in the middle of a Room, playing with her
Fan, for want of something to keep her in Countenance. No, she that is
mine, I will teach to entertain at another rate.

_Nur_. How, Sir? Why, what do you take my young Mistress to be?

Sir _Tim_. A Woman--and a fine one, and so fine as she ought to permit
her self to be seen, and be ador'd.

_Nur_. Out upon you, would you expose your Wife? by my troth, and I
were she, I know what I wou'd do--

Sir _Tim_. Thou do--what thou wouldst have done sixty Years ago,
thou meanest.

_Nur_. Marry come up, for a stinking Knight; worse than I have gone
down with you, e'er now--Sixty Years ago, quoth ye--As old as I am--
I live without Surgeons, wear my own Hair, am not in Debt to my Taylor,
as thou art, and art fain to kiss his Wife, to persuade her Husband
to be merciful to thee--who wakes thee every Morning with his Clamour
and long Bills, at thy Chamber-door.

Sir _Tim_. Prithee, good Matron, Peace; I'll compound with thee.

_Nur_. 'Tis more than thou wilt do with thy Creditors, who, poor Souls,
despair of a Groat in the Pound for all thou ow'st them, for Points,
Lace, and Garniture--for all, in fine, that makes thee a complete <DW2>.

Sir _Tim_. Hold, hold thy eternal Clack.

_Nur_. And when none would trust thee farther, give Judgments for twice
the Money thou borrowest, and swear thy self at Age; and lastly--to
patch up your broken Fortune, you wou'd fain marry my sweet Mistress
_Celinda_ here--But, Faith, Sir, you're mistaken, her Fortune shall not
go to the Maintenance of your Misses; which being once sure of, she,
poor Soul, is sent d
own to the Country-house, to learn Housewifery, and
live without Mankind, unless she can serve her self with the handsom
Steward, or so--whilst you tear it away in Town, and live like Man and
Wife with your Jilt, and are every Day seen in the Glass Coach, whilst
your own natural Lady is hardly worth the Hire of a Hack.

Sir _Tim_. Why, thou damnable confounded Torment, wilt thou never cease?

_Nur_. No, not till you raise your Siege, and be gone; go march to your
Lady of Love, and Debauch--go--You get no _Celinda_ here.

Sir _Tim_. The Devil's in her Tongue.

_Cel_. Good gentle Nurse, have Mercy upon the poor Knight.

_Nur_. No more, Mistress, than he'll have on you, if Heaven had so
abandon'd you, to put you into his Power--Mercy--quoth ye--no--, no
more than his Mistress will have, when all his Money's gone.

Sir _Tim_. Will she never end?

_Cel_. Prithee forbear.

_Nur_. No more than the Usurer would, to whom he has mortgag'd the best
part of his Estate, would forbear a Day after the promis'd Payment of
the Money. Forbear!--

Sir _Tim_. Not yet end! Can I, Madam, give you a greater Proof of my
Passion for you, than to endure this for your sake?

_Nur_. This--thou art so sorry a Creature, thou wilt endure any thing
for the lucre of her Fortune; 'tis that thou hast a Passion for: not
that thou carest for Money, but to sacrifice to thy Leudness, to
purchase a Mistress, to purchase the Reputation of as errant a Fool as
ever arriv'd at the Honour of keeping; to purchase a little Grandeur,
as you call it; that is, to make every one look at thee, and consider
what a Fool thou art, who else might pass unregarded amongst the common
Croud.

Sir _Tim_. The Devil's in her Tongue, and so 'tis in most Women's of her
Age; for when it has quitted the Tail, it repairs to her upper Tire.

_Nur_. Do not persuade me, Madam, I am resolv'd to make him weary of his
Wooing.

Sir _Tim_. So, God be prais'd, the Storm is laid--And now, Mrs. _Celinda_,
give me leave to ask you, if it be with your leave, this Affront is put
on a Man of my
 Quality?

_Nur_. Thy Quality--

Sir _Tim_. Yes; I am a Gentleman, and a Knight.

_Nur_. Yes, Sir, Knight of the ill-favour'd Countenance is it?

Sir _Tim_. You are beholding to _Don Quixot_ for that, and 'tis so many
Ages since thou couldst see to read, I wonder thou hast not forgot all
that ever belong'd to Books.

_Nur_. My Eye-sight is good enough to see thee in all thy Colours, thou
Knight of the burning Pestle thou.

Sir _Tim_. Agen, that was out of a Play--Hark ye, Witch of _Endor_, hold
your prating Tongue, or I shall most well-favour'dly cudgel ye.

_Nur_. As your Friend the Hostess has it in a Play too, I take it, Ends
which you pick up behind the Scenes, when you go to be laught at even by
the Player-Women.

Sir _Tim_. Wilt thou have done? By Fortune, I'll endure no more--

_Nur_. Murder, Murder!

Cel. Hold, hold.

 _Enter_ Friendlove, Bellmour, Sham _and_ Sharp.

_Friend_. Read here the worst of News that can arrive,
 [_Gives_ Bellm. _a Letter_.
--What's the matter here? Why, how now,
Sir _Timothy_, what, up in Arms with the Women?

Sir _Tim_. Oh, Ned, I'm glad thou'rt come--never was _Tom Dove_ baited
as I have been.

_Friend_. By whom? my Sister?

Sir _Tim_. No, no, that old Mastiff there--the young Whelp came not on,
thanks be prais'd.

_Bel_. How, her Father here to morrow, and here he says, that shall be
the last Moment, he will defer the Marriage of _Celinda_ to this Sot--
Oh God, I shall grow mad, and so undo 'em all--I'll kill the Villain at
the Altar--By my lost hopes, I will--And yet there is some left--Could I
but--speak to her--I must rely on _Dresswell's_ Friendship--Oh God, to
morrow--Can I endure that thought? Can I endure to see the Traytor there,
who must to morrow rob me of my Heaven?--I'll own my Flame--and boldly
tell this <DW2>, she must be mine--

_Friend_. I assure you, Sir _Timothy_, I am sorry, and will chastise her.

Sir _Tim_. Ay, Sir, I that am a Knight--a Man of Parts and Wit, and one
that is to be your Brother, and design'd to be the Glory of marrying
_Celinda_.

_Bel_. I
 can endure no more--How, Sir--You marry fair _Celinda!_

Sir _Tim_. Ay, _Frank_, ay--is she not a pretty little plump white
Rogue, hah?

_Bel_. Yes.

Sir _Tim_. Oh, I had forgot thou art a modest Rogue, and to thy eternal
Shame, hadst never the Reputation of a Mistress--Lord, Lord, that I
could see thee address thy self to a Lady--I fancy thee a very ridiculous
Figure in that Posture, by Fortune.

_Bel_. Why, Sir, I can court a Lady--

Sir _Tim_. No, no, thou'rt modest; that is to say, a Country Gentleman;
that is to say, ill-bred; that is to say, a Fool, by Fortune, as the
World goes.

_Bel_. Neither, Sir--I can love--and tell it too--and that you may
believe me--look on this Lady, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. Look on this Lady, Sir--Ha, ha, ha,--Well, Sir--Well, Sir--
And what then?

_Bel_. Nay, view her well, Sir--

Sir. _Tim_. Pleasant this--Well, _Frank_, I do--And what then?

_Bel_. Is she not charming fair--fair to a wonder!

Sir _Tim_. Well, Sir, 'tis granted--

_Bel_. And canst thou think this Beauty meant for thee, for thee, dull
common Man?

Sir _Tim_. Very well, what will he say next?

_Bel_. I say, let me no more see thee approach this Lady.

Sir _Tim_. How, Sir, how?

_Bel_. Not speak to her, not look on her--by Heaven--not think of her.

Sir _Tim_. How, _Frank_, art in earnest?

_Bel_. Try, if thou dar'st.

Sir _Tim_. Not think of her!--

_Bel_. No, not so much as in a Dream, could I divine it.

Sir _Tim_. Is he in earnest, Mr. _Friendlove_?

_Friend_. I doubt so, Sir _Timothy_.

Sir _Tim_. What, does he then pretend to your Sister?

_Bel_. Yes, and no Man else shall dare do so.

Sir _Tim_. Take notice I am affronted in your Lodgings--for you,
_Bellmour_--You take me for an Ass--therefore meet me to morrow Morning
about five, with your Sword in your Hand, behind _Southampton_ House.

_Bel_. 'Tis well--there we will dispute our Title to _Celinda_.
 [_Exit Sir_ Tim.
_Dull Animal! The Gods cou'd ne'er decree
So bright a Maid shou'd be possest by thee_.

 [Exeunt.

ACT II.

SCENE I. _A Palace_.

 _Enter_ Nurse _w
ith a Light_.

_Nur_. Well, 'tis an endless trouble to have the Tuition of a Maid in
love, here is such Wishing and Longing.--And yet one must force them to
what they most desire, before they will admit of it--Here am I sent out
a Scout of the Forlorn Hope, to discover the Approach of the Enemy--Well
--Mr. _Bellmour_, you are not to know, 'tis with the Consent of _Celinda_,
that you come--I must bear all the blame, what Mischief soever comes of
these Night-Works.

 _Enter_ Bellmour.

Oh, are you come--Your Hour was Twelve, and now 'tis almost Two.

_Bel_. I could not get from _Friendlove_--Thou hast not told _Celinda_
of my coming?

_Nur_. No, no, e'en make Peace for me, and your self too.

_Bel_. I warrant thee, Nurse--Oh, how I hope and fear this Night's
Success!

 [_Exeunt_.

SCENE II. _A Chamber_.

 Celinda _in her Night-Attire, leaning on a Table.
 Enter to her_ Bellmour _and_ Nurse.

_Cel_. Oh Heavens! Mr. _Bellmour_ at this late Hour in my Chamber!

_Bel_. Yes, Madam; but will approach no nearer till you permit me;
And sure you know my Soul too well to fear.

_Cel_. I do, Sir, and you may approach yet nearer,
And let me know your Business.

_Bel_. Love is my bus'ness, that of all the World;
Only my Flame as much surmounts the rest,
As is the Object's Beauty I adore.

_Cel_. If this be all, to tell me of your Love,
To morrow might have done as well.

_Bel_. Oh, no, to morrow would have been too late,
Too late to make returns to all my Pain.
--What disagreeing thing offends your Eyes?
I've no Deformity about my Person;
I'm young, and have a Fortune great as any
That do pretend to serve you;
And yet I find my Interest in your Heart,
Below those happy ones that are my Rivals.
Nay, every Fool that can but plead his Title,
And the poor Interest that a Parent gives him,
Can merit more than I.
--What else, my lovely Maid, can give a freedom
To that same talking, idle, knighted <DW2>?

_Cel_. Oh, if I am so wretched to be his,
Surely I cannot live;
For, Sir, I must confess I cannot love him.

_Bel_. But thou may'st
 do as bad, and marry him,
And that's a Sin I cannot over-live;
--No, hear my Vows--

_Cel_. But are you, Sir, in earnest?

_Bel_. In earnest? Yes, by all that's good, I am;
I love you more than I do Life, or Heaven!

_Cel_. Oh, what a pleasure 'tis to hear him say so! [_Aside_.
--But pray, how long, Sir, have you lov'd me so?

_Bel_. From the first moment that I saw your Eyes,
Your charming killing Eyes, I did adore 'em;
And ever since have languisht Day and Night.

_Nur_. Come, come, ne'er stand asking of Questions,
But follow your Inclinations, and take him at his Word.

_Bel_. Celinda, take her Counsel,
Perhaps this is the last opportunity;
Nay, and, by Heaven, the last of all my Life,
If you refuse me now--
Say, will you never marry Man but me?

_Cel_. Pray give me till to morrow, Sir, to answer you;
For I have yet some Fears about my Soul,
That take away my Rest.

_Bel_. To morrow! You must then marry--Oh fatal Word!
Another! a Beast, a Fool, that knows not how to value you.

_Cel_. Is't possible my Fate shou'd be so near?

_Nur_. Nay, then dispose of your self, I say, and leave dissembling;
'tis high time.

_Bel_. This Night the Letter came, the dreadful News
Of thy being married, and to morrow too.
Oh, answer me, or I shall die with Fear.

_Cel_. I must confess it, Sir, without a blush,
(For 'tis no Sin to love) that I cou'd wish--
Heaven and my Father were inclin'd my way:
But I am all Obedience to their Wills.

_Bel_. That Sigh was kind,
But e'er to morrow this time,
You'll want this pitying Sense, and feel no Pantings,
But those which Joys and Pleasures do create.

_Cel_. Alas, Sir! what is't you'd have me do?

_Bel_. Why--I wou'd have you love, and after that
You need not be instructed what to do.
Give me your Faith, give me your solemn Vow
To be my Wife, and I shall be at Peace.

_Cel_. Have you consider'd, Sir, your own Condition?
'Tis in your Uncle's Power to take your Fortune,
If in your Choice you disobey his Will.
--And, Sir, you know that mine is much below you.

_Bel_. Oh, I shall calm his Rag
e,
By urging so much Reason as thy Beauty,
And my own Flame, on which my Life depends.
--He now has kindly sent for me to _London_,
I fear his Bus'ness--
Yet if you'll yield to marry me,
We'll keep it secret, till our kinder Stars
Have made provision for the blest Discovery.
Come, give me your Vows, or we must part for ever.

_Cel_. Part! Oh, 'tis a fatal Word!
I will do any thing to save that Life,
To which my own so nearly is ally'd.

 _Enter_ Friendlove.

_Friend_. So, forward Sister!

_Bel_. Ha, _Friendlove!_

_Friend_. Was it so kindly done, to gain my Sister
Without my knowledge?

_Bel_. Ah, Friend! 'Twas from her self alone
That I wou'd take the Blessing which I ask.

_Friend_. And I'll assist her, Sir, to give it you.
Here, take him as an Honour, and be thankful.

_Bel_. I as a Blessing sent from Heaven receive her,
And e'er I sleep will justify my Claim,
And make her mine.

_Friend_. Be not so hasty, Friend:
Endeavour first to reconcile your Uncle to't.

_Bel_. By such Delays we're lost: Hast thou forgot?
To morrow she's design'd another's Bride!

_Friend_. For that let me alone t'evade.

_Bel_. If you must yet delay me,
Give me leave not to interest such Wealth without Security.
And I, _Celinda_, will instruct you how to satisfy my Fears.
 [_Kneels, and takes her by the Hand_.
Bear witness to my Vows--
May every Plague that Heaven inflicts on Sin,
Fall down in Thunder on my Head,
If e'er I marry any but _Celinda_
Or if I do not marry thee, fair Maid.

_Nur_. Heartily sworn, as I vow.

_Cel_. And here I wish as solemnly the same:
--May all arrive to me,
If e'er I marry any Man but _Bellmour_!

_Nur_. We are Witnesses, as good as a thousand.

_Friend_. But now, my Friend, I'd have you take your leave; the day
comes on apace, and you've not seen your Uncle since your Arrival.

_Bel_. 'Tis Death to part with thee, my fair Celinda;
But our hard Fates impose this Separation:
--Farewel--Remember thou'rt all mine.

_Cel_. What have I else of Joy to think upon?
--Go--go--depart.

_Bel_. I will--but 'tis as Miser
s part with Gold,
Or People full of Health depart from Life.

_Friend_. Go, Sister, to your Bed, and dream of him.

 [_Ex_. Cel. _and_ Nurse.

_Bel_. Whilst I prepare to meet this <DW2> to fight him.

_Friend_. Hang him, he'll ne'er meet thee; to beat a Watch, or kick
a Drawer, or batter Windows, is the highest pitch of Valour he e'er
arriv'd to.

_Bel_. However, I'll expect him, lest he be fool-hardy enough to keep
his Word.

_Friend_. Shall I wait on thee?

_Bel_. No, no, there's no need of that--Good-morrow, my best Friend.

_Friend_. But e'er you go, my dearest Friend and Brother,
Now you are sure of all the Joys you wish
From Heaven, do not forgetful grow of that great Trust
I gave you of all mine; but, like a Friend,
Assist me in my great Concern of Love
With fair Diana, your lovely Cousin.
You know how long I have ador'd that Maid;
But still her haughty Pride repell'd my Flame,
And all its fierce Efforts.

_Bel_. She has a Spirit equal to her Beauty,
As mighty and tyrannick; yet she has Goodness,
And I believe enough inclin'd to Love,
When once her Pride's o'ercome. I have the Honour
To be the Confident of all her Thoughts:
And to augment thy Hopes, 'tis not long since
She did with Sighs confess to me, she lov'd
A Man, she said, scarce equal to her Fortune:
But all my Interest could not learn the Object;
But it must needs be you, by what she said.
This I'll improve, and so to your Advantage--

_Friend_. I neither doubt thy Industry, nor Love;
Go, and be careful of my Interest there,
Whilst I preserve thine as intirely here.

 [_Ex. severally_.

SCENE III. _Sir_ Timothy's _House_.

 _Enter Sir_ Timothy, Sham, Sharp, _and_ Boy.

_Sharp_. Good morrow, Sir _Timothy_; what, not yet ready, and to meet
Mr. _Bellmour_ at Five? the time's past.

Sir _Tim_.--Ay, Pox on't--I han't slept to Night for thinking on't.

_Sham_. Well, Sir _Timothy_, I have most excellent News for you, that
will do as well; I have found out--

Sir _Tim_. A new Wench, I warrant--But prithee, _Sham_, I have other
matters in hand; 'Sheart, I a
m so mortify'd with this same thought of
Fighting, that I shall hardly think of Womankind again.

_Sharp_. And you were so forward, Sir Timothy--

Sir _Tim_. Ay, _Sharp_, I am always so when I am angry; had I been but
A little more provok'd then, that we might have gone to't when the heat
was brisk, I had done well--but a Pox on't, this fighting in cool
Blood I hate.

_Sham_. 'Shaw, Sir, 'tis nothing, a Man wou'd do't for Exercise in a
Morning.

Sir _Tim_. Ay, if there were no more in't than Exercise; if a Man cou'd
take a Breathing without breathing a Vein--but, _Sham_, this Wounds, and
Blood, sounds terribly in my Ears; but since thou say'st 'tis nothing,
prithee do thou meet _Bellmour_ in my stead; thou art a poor Dog, and
'tis no matter if the World were well rid of thee.

_Sham_. I wou'd do't with all my Soul--but your Honour, Sir--

Sir _Tim_.--My Honour! 'tis but Custom that makes it honourable to fight
Duels--I warrant you the wise _Italian_ thinks himself a Man of Honour;
and yet when did you hear of an _Italian_, that ever fought a Duel? Is't
not enough, that I am affronted, have my Mistress taken away before my
Face, hear my self call'd, dull, common Man, dull Animal, and the
rest?--But I must after all give him leave to kill me too, if he
can--And this is your damn'd Honourable _English_ way of shewing a
Man's Courage.

_Sham_. I must confess I am of your mind, and therefore have been
studying a Revenge, sutable to the Affront: and if I can judge any
thing, I have hit it.

Sir _Tim_. Hast thou? dear _Sham_, out with it.

_Sham_. Why, Sir--what think you of debauching his Sister?

Sir _Tim_. Why, is there such a thing in Nature?

_Sham_. You know he has a Sister, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. Yes, rich, and fair.

_Sham_. Both, or she were not worthy of your Revenge.

Sir _Tim_. Oh, how I love Revenge, that has a double Pleasure in it--and
where--and where is this fine piece of Temptation?

_Sham_. In being, Sir--but _Sharp_ here, and I, have been at some cost
in finding her out.

Sir _Tim_. Ye shall be overpaid--t
here's Gold, my little _Maquere_--but
she's very handsom?

_Sharp_. As a Goddess, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. And art thou sure she will be leud?

_Sharp_. Are we sure she's a Woman, Sir?--Sure, she's in her Teens, has
Pride and Vanity--and two or three Sins more that I cou'd name, all
which never fail to assist a Woman in Debauchery--But, Sir, there are
certain People that belong to her, that must be consider'd too.

Sir _Tim_. Stay, Sir, e'er I part with more Money, I'll be certain what
returns 'twill make me--that is, I'll see the Wench, not to inform my
self, how well I like her, for that I shall do, because she is new, and
_Bellmour's_ Sister--but to find what possibility there is in gaining
her.--I am us'd to these things, and can guess from a Look, or a Kiss,
or a Touch of the Hand--but then I warrant, 'twill come to the knowledge
of _Betty Flauntit_.

_Sham_. What, Sir, then it seems you doubt us?

Sir _Tim_. How do you mean, your Honesty or Judgment? I can assure you,
I doubt both.

_Sharp_. How, Sir, doubt our Honesty!

Sir _Tim_. Yes--why, I hope neither of you pretend to either, do you?

_Sham_. Why, Sir, what, do you take us for Cheats?

Sir _Tim_. As errant, as any's in Christendom.

_Sharp_. How, Sir?

Sir _Tim_. Why, how now--what, fly in my Face? Are your Stomachs so
queasy, that Cheat won't down with you?

_Sham_. Why, Sir, we are Gentlemen; and though our ill Fortunes have
thrown us on your Bounty, we are not to be term'd--

Sir _Tim_. Why, you pair of Hectors--whence this Impudence?--Do ye know
me, ye Raggamuffins?

_Sham_. Yes, but we knew not that you were a Coward before. You talkt
big, and huft where-e'er you came, like an errant Bully; and so long we
reverenc'd you--but now we find you have need of our Courage, we'll
stand on our own Reputations.

Sir _Tim_. Courage and Reputation!--ha, ha, ha--why, you lousy
Tatterdemallions--dare ye talk of Courage and Reputation?

_Sharp_. Why, Sir, who dares question either?

Sir _Tim_. He that dares try it. [Kicks 'em.

_Sharp_. Hold, Sir, hold.

_Sham_. Enough
, enough, we are satisfy'd.

Sir _Tim_. So am not I, ye mangy Mungrels, till I have kickt Courage and
Reputation out of ye.

_Sham_. Hold there, Sir, 'tis enough, we are satisfy'd, that you have
Courage.

Sir _Tim_. Oh, are you so? then it seems I was not to be believ'd--I
told you I had Courage when I was angry.

_Sham_. Ay, Sir, we have prov'd it, and will now swear it.--But we had
an Inclination to try, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. And all you did, was but to try my Courage, hah!

_Sharp_. On our Honours, nothing else, Sir _Timothy_.

Sir _Tim_. Though I know ye to be cursed cowardly lying Rogues, yet
because I have use of ye, I must forgive ye.--Here, kiss my Hand, and
be forgiven.

_Sham_. 'Tis an Honour we are proud of, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. Oh, is it so, Rascallians? then I hope I am to see the Lady
without Indentures.

_Sharp_. Oh Lord, Sir, any thing we can serve you in.

_Sham_. And I have brib'd her Maid to bring her this Morning into the
_Mall_.

Sir _Tim_. Well, let's about it then; for I am for no fighting to
day--D'ye hear, Boy--Let the Coach be got ready whilst I get my
self drest.

_Boy_. The Coach, Sir! Why, you know Mr. _Shatter_ has pawn'd the
Horses.

Sir _Tim_. I had forgot it--A pox on't, this 'tis to have a Partner in
A Coach; by Fortune, I must marry and set up a whole one.

 [Exeunt.

SCENE IV. Lord Plotwell's House.

 Enter Charles Bellmour, and Trusty.

_Trusty_. Mr. _Charles_, your Brother, my young Master _Bellmour_,
is come.

_Char_. I'm glad on't; my Uncle began to be impatient that he came not,
you saying you left him but a day's Journey behind you yesterday. My
Uncle has something of importance to say to him, I fancy it may be about
A Marriage between him and my Lady _Diana_--such a Whisper I heard--

_Trusty_. Ay, marry, Sir, that were a Match indeed, she being your
Uncle's only Heir.

_Char_. Ay, but they are Sisters Children, and too near a-kin to
be happy.

_Trusty_. 'Twere pity my young Master shou'd be unhappy in a Wife; for
he is the sweetest-natur'd Gentleman--But one Comfort is, Mr. _Cha
rles_,
you, and your Sister Mrs. _Phillis_, will have your Portions assign'd
you if he marry.

_Char_. Yes, that he can't deny us the very Day after his Marriage.

_Trusty_. I shall be glad to see you all dispos'd of well; but I was
half afraid, your Brother would have married Mrs. _Celinda Friendlove_,
to whom he made notable Love in _Yorkshire_ I thought: not but she's a
fine Lady; but her Fortune is below that of my young Master's, as much
as my Lady _Diana's_ is above his--But see, they come; let us retire,
to give 'em leave to talk alone.

 [_Exeunt_.

 _Enter_ _Lord_ Plotwell, _and_ Bellmour.

_Lord_. And well, _Frank_, how dost thou find thy self inclin'd? thou
should'st begin to think of something more than Books. Do'st thou not
wish to know the Joys that are to be found in a Woman, _Frank_? I well
remember at thy Age I fancy'd a thousand fine things of that kind.

_Bel_. Ay, my Lord, a thousand more perhaps than are to be found.

_Lord_. Not so; but I confess, _Frank_, unless the Lady be fair, and
there be some Love too, 'tis not altogether so well; therefore I, who
am still busy for thy good, have fix'd upon a Lady--

_Bel_. Ha!--

_Lord_. What, dost start? Nay, I'll warrant thee she'll please; A Lady
rich, and fair, and nobly born, and thou shalt marry her, _Frank_.

_Bel_. Marry her, my Lord--

_Lord_. Why, yes, marry her--I hope you are none of the fashionable
<DW2>s, that are always in Mutiny against Marriage, who never think
themselves very witty, but when they rail against Heaven and a Wife--
But, _Frank_, I have found better Principles in thee, and thou hast the
Reputation of a sober young Gentleman; thou art, besides, a Man of great
Fortune, _Frank_.

_Bel_. And therefore, Sir, ought the less to be a Slave.

_Lord_. But, _Frank_, we are made for one another; and ought, by the
Laws of God, to communicate our Blessings.

_Bel_. Sir, there are Men enough, fitter much than I, to obey those
Laws; nor do I think them made for every one.

_Lord_. But, _Frank_, you do not know what a Wife I have provide
d
for you.

_Bel_. 'Tis enough I know she's a Woman, Sir.

_Lord_. A Woman! why, what should she be else?

_Bel_. An Angel, Sir, e'er she can be my Wife.

_Lord_. In good time: but this is a Mortal, Sir--and must serve your
turn--but, _Frank_, she is the finest Mortal--

_Bel_. I humbly beg your Pardon, if I tell you,
That had she Beauty such as Heav'n ne'er made,
Nor meant again t'inrich a Woman with,
It cou'd not take my Heart.

_Lord_. But, Sir, perhaps you do not guess the Lady.

_Bel_. Or cou'd I, Sir, it cou'd not change my Nature.

_Lord_. But, Sir, suppose it be my Niece _Diana_.

_Bel_. How, Sir, the fair _Diana_!

_Lord_. I thought thou'dst come about again;
What think you now of Woman-kind, and Wedlock?

_Bel_. As I did before, my Lord.

_Lord_. What, thou canst not think I am in earnest; I confess, _Frank_,
she is above thee in point of Fortune, she being my only Heir--but
suppose 'tis she.

_Bel_. Oh, I'm undone!--Sir, I dare not suppose so greatly in favour
of my self.

_Lord_. But, _Frank_, you must needs suppose--

_Bel_. Oh, I am ruin'd, lost, for ever lost.

_Lord_. What do you mean, Sir?

_Bel_. I mean, I cannot marry fair _Diana_.

_Lord_. Death! how's this?

_Bel_. She is a thing above my humble wishes--

_Lord_. Is that all? Take you no care for that; for she loves you
already, and I have resolv'd it, which is better yet.

_Bel_. Love me, Sir! I know she cannot,
And Heav'n forbid that I should injure her.

_Lord_. Sir, this is a Put-off: resolve quickly, or I'll compel you.

_Bel_. You wou'd not use Extremity;
What is the Forfeit of my Disobedience?

_Lord_. The loss of all your Fortune,
If you refuse the Wife I have provided--
Especially a handsom Lady, as she is, _Frank_.

_Bel_. Oh me, unhappy!
What cursed Laws provided this Severity?

_Lord_. Even those of your Father's Disposal, who seeing so many
Examples in this leud Age, of the ruin of whole Families by imprudent
Marriages, provided otherwise for you.

_Bel_. But, Sir, admit _Diana_ be inclin'd,
And I (by my unhappy Stars so curs'd)

Should be unable to accept the Honour.

_Lord_. How, Sir! admit!--I can no more admit,
Than you can suppose--therefore give me your final Answer.

_Bel_. Sir, can you think a Blessing e'er can fall
Upon that Pair, whom Interest joins, not Love?

_Lord_. Why, what's in _Diana_, that you shou'd not love her?

_Bel_. I must confess she has a thousand Virtues,
The least of which wou'd bless another Man;
But, Sir, I hope, if I am so unhappy
As not to love that Lady, you will pardon me.

_Lord_. Indeed, Sir, but I will not; love me this Lady, and marry me
this Lady, or I will teach you what it is to refuse such a Lady.

_Bel_. Sir, 'tis not in my power to obey you.

_Lord_. How! not in your pow'r?

_Bel_. No, Sir, I see my fatal Ruin in your Eyes,
And know too well your Force, and my own Misery.
--But, Sir--when I shall tell you who I've married--

_Lord_. Who you've married;--By all that's sacred, if that be true,
thou art undone for ever.

_Bel_. O hear me, Sir!
I came with Hopes to have found you merciful.

_Lord_. Expect none from me; no, thou shalt not have
So much of thy Estate, as will afford thee Bread:
By Heav'n, thou shalt not.

_Bel_. Oh, pity me, my Lord, pity my Youth;
It is no Beggar, nor one basely born,
That I have given my Heart to, but a Maid,
Whose Birth, whose Beauty, and whose Education
Merits the best of Men.

_Lord_. Very fine! where is the Priest that durst dispose of you without
my Order? Sirrah, you are my Slave--at least your whole Estate is at my
mercy--and besides, I'll charge you with an Action of 5000 pounds. For
your ten Years Maintenance: Do you know that this in my power too?

_Bel_. Yes, Sir, and dread your Anger worse than Death.

_Lord_. Oh Villain! thus to dash my Expectation!

_Bel_. Sir, on my bended Knees, thus low I fall
To beg your mercy.

_Lord_. Yes, Sir, I will have mercy;
I'll give you Lodging--but in a Dungeon, Sir,
Where you shall ask your Food of Passers by.

_Bel_. All this, I know, you have the Pow'r to do;
But, Sir, were I thus cruel, this hard Usage
Would give me Ca
use to execute it.
I wear a Sword, and I dare right my self;
And Heaven wou'd pardon it, if I should kill you:
But Heav'n forbid I shou'd correct that Law,
Which gives you Power, and orders me Obedience.

_Lord_. Very well, Sir, I shall tame that Courage, and punish that
Harlot, whoe'er she be, that has seduc'd ye.

_Bel_. How, Harlot, Sir!--Death, such another Word,
And through all Laws and Reason I will rush,
And reach thy Soul, if mortal like thy Body.
--No, Sir, she's chaste, as are the new-made Vows
I breath'd upon her Lips, when last we parted.

_Lord_. Who waits there?

 Enter Trusty and Servants.

--Shall I be murder'd in my own House?
'Tis time you were remov'd--
Go, get an Action of 5000 pounds, enter'd against him,
With Officers to arrest him.

_Trusty_. My Lord, 'tis my young Master _Bellmour_.

_Lord_. Ye all doat upon him, but he's not the Man you take him for.

_Trusty_. How, my Lord! not this Mr. _Bellmour_!

_Lord_. Dogs, obey me.
 [_Offers to go_.

_Bel_. Stay, Sir--oh, stay--what will become of me?
'Twere better that my Life were lost, than Fortune--
For that being gone, _Celinda_ must not love me.
--But to die wretchedly--
Poorly in Prison--whilst I can manage this--
Is below him, that does adore _Celinda. [Draws_.
I'll kill my self--but then--I kill _Celinda_.
Shou'd I obey this Tyrant--then too she dies.
Yes, Sir--You may be cruel--take the Law,
And kill me quickly, 'twill become your Justice. [_Weeps_.

_Lord_. Was I call'd back for this? Yes, I shall take it, Sir;
do not fear.
 [_Offers to go_.

_Bel_. Yet, stay, Sir--Have you lost all Humanity?
Have you no Sense of Honour, nor of Horrors?

_Lord_. Away with him--go, be gone.

_Bel_. Stay, Sir. Oh, God! what is't you'd have me do?
--Here--I resign my self unto your Will--
But, Oh _Celinda_! what will become of thee? [_Weeps_.
--Yes, I will marry--and _Diana_ too.

_Lord_. 'Tis well you will; had I not been good-natur'd now,
You had been undone, and miss'd _Diana_ too.

_Bel_. But must I marry--needs marry, Sir?
Or lose my Fortune, and my L
iberty,
Whilst all my Vows are given to another?

_Lord_. By all means, Sir--

_Bel_. If I must marry any but _Celinda_,
I shall not, Sir, enjoy one moment's Bliss:
I shall be quite unman'd, cruel and brutal;
A Beast, unsafe for Woman to converse with.
Besides, Sir, I have given my Heart and Faith,
And my second Marriage is Adultery.

_Lord_. Heart and Faith, I am glad 'tis no worse; if the Ceremony of
the Church has not past, 'tis well enough.

_Bel_. All, Sir, that Heaven and Love requires, is past.

_Lord_. Thou art a Fool, _Frank_, come--dry thy Eyes. And receive
_Diana_--_Trusty_, call in my Niece.

_Bel_. Yet, Sir, relent, be kind, and save my Soul.

 [_Ex_. Trusty.

_Lord_. No more--by Heaven, if you resist my Will, I'll make a strange
Example of thee, and of that Woman, whoe'er she be, that drew you to
this Folly. Faith and Vows, quoth ye!

_Bel_. Then I obey.

 _Enter_ Trusty _and_ Diana.

_Lord_. Look ye here, _Frank_; Is this a Lady to be dislik'd? Come
hither, _Frank--Trusty_, haste for Dr. _Tickletext_, my Chaplain's not
in Town; I'll have them instantly married--Come hither, _Diana_--will
you marry your Cousin, _Frank Bellmour_?

_Dia_. Yes, if it be your pleasure;
Heaven cou'd not let fall a greater Blessing. [_Aside_.

_Lord_. And you, _Frank_, will you marry my Niece _Diana_?

_Bel_. Since you will have it so.

_Lord_. Come, follow me then, and you shall be both pleas'd.

_Bel_. Oh my _Celinda_!--

 _To preserve thee, what is't I wou'd not do?
 Forfeit my Heaven, nay more, I forfeit you_.

 [_Exit_.

SCENE V. _The Street_.

 _Enter Sir_ Timothy Tawdrey, Sham _and_ Sharp.

Sir _Tim_. Now, _Sham_, art not thou a damn'd lying Rogue, to make me
saunter up and down the _Mall_ all this Morning, after a Woman that thou
know'st in thy Conscience was not likely to be there?

_Sham_. Why, Sir--if her Maid will be a jilting Whore, how can I help
it?--_Sharp_, thou know'st we presented her handsomly, and she protested
she'd do't.

_Sharp_. Ay, ay, Sir: But the Devil a Maid we saw. [_Aside_.

_Sham_. Sir, it 
may be Things have so fallen out, that she could not
possibly come.

Sir _Tim_. Things! a Pox of your Tricks--Well, I see there's no trusting
a poor Devil--Well, what Device will your Rogueship find out to cheat
me next?

_Sham_. Prithee help me out at a dead lift, _Sharp_. [_Aside_.

_Sharp_. Cheat you, Sir!--if I ben't reveng'd on this She-Counsellor of
the Patching and Painting, this Letter-in of Midnight Lovers, this
Receiver of Bribes for stol'n Pleasures; may I be condemn'd never to
make love to any thing of higher Quality.

Sir _Tim_. Nay, nay, no threatning, _Sharp_; it may be she's innocent
yet--Give her t'other Bribe, and try what that will do.
 [_Gives him Money_.

_Sham_. No, Sir, I'll have no more to do with frail Woman, in this Case;
I have a surer way to do your Business.

 _Enter_ Page _with a Letter_.

Sir _Tim_. Is not that _Bellmour's_ Page?

_Sharp_. It is, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. By Fortune, the Rogue's looking for me; he has a Challenge
in his hand too.

_Sham_. No matter, Sir, huff it out.

Sir _Tim_. Prithee do thee huff him, thou know'st the way on't.

_Sham_. What's your Bus'ness with Sir _Timothy_, Sir?

_Page_. Mine, Sir, I don't know the Gentleman; pray which is he?

Sir _Tim_. I, I, 'tis so--Pox on him.

_Sharp_. Well, Boy, I am he--What--Your Master.

_Page_. My Master, Sir--

_Sharp_. Are not you _Bellmour's_ Page?

_Page_. Yes, Sir.

_Sharp_. Well, your News.

_Page_. News, Sir? I know of none, but of my Master's being this
Morning--

Sir _Tim_. Ay, there it is--behind _Southampton_ House.

_Page_. Married this Morning.

Sir _Tim_. How! Married! 'Slife, has he serv'd me so?

_Sham_. The Boy is drunk--_Bellmour_ married!

_Page_. Yes, indeed, to the Lady _Diana_.

Sir _Tim_. _Diana!_ Mad, by Fortune; what _Diana_?

_Page_. Niece to the Lord _Plotwell_.

Sir _Tim_. Come hither, Boy--Art thou sure of this?

_Page_. Sir, I am sure of it; and I am going to bespeak Musick for the
Ball anon.

Sir _Tim_. What hast thou there--a Letter to the Divine _Celinda_?
A dainty Boy--there's Money for to b
uy thee Nickers.

_Page_. I humbly thank you.
 [_Exit_.

_Sharp_. Well, Sir, if this be true, _Celinda_ will be glad of you again.

Sir. _Tim_. Ay, but I will have none of her--For, look you, _Sham_,
there is but two sorts of Love in this World--Now I am sure the Rogue
did love her; and since it was not to marry her, it was for the thing
you wot on, as appears by his writing to her now--But yet, I will not
believe what this Boy said, till I see it.

_Sham_. Faith, Sir, I have thought of a thing, that may both clear your
doubt, and give us a little Mirth.

Sir _Tim_. I conceive thee.

_Sham_. I know y'are quick of Apprehension, Sir _Timothy_.

Sir _Tim_. O, your Servant, dear _Sham_--But to let thee see, I am none
of the dullest, we are to Jig it in Masquerade this Evening, hah.

_Sham_. Faith, Sir, you have it, and there you may have an Opportunity
to court _Bellmour's_ Sister.

Sir _Tim_. 'Tis a good Motion, and we will follow it; send to the Duke's
House, and borrow some Habits presently.

_Sham_. I'll about it, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. Make haste to my Lodging--But hark ye--not a word of this to
_Betty Flauntit_, she'll be up in Arms these two Days, if she go not
with us; and though I think the fond Devil is true to me, yet it were
worse than Wedlock, if I should be so to her too.

 _Tho Whores in all things else the Mastery get,
 In this alone, like Wives, they must submit_.

 Exeunt.

ACT III.

SCENE I. _A Room in Lord_ Plotwell's _House_.

 _Enter Lord_ Plotwell, Bellmour _leading in_ Diana, _follow'd by
 _Charles Bellmour, Phillis, _and other Ladies and Gentlemen_.
 [_Musick plays, till they are all seated_.

_Lord_. Here, Nephew, I resign that Trust, which was repos'd in me by
your dead Father; which was, that on your Wedding-Day I should thus--
make you Master of your whole Fortune, you being married to my liking--
And now, _Charles_, and you, my Niece _Phillis_, you may demand your
Portions to morrow, if you please, for he is oblig'd to pay you the Day
after that of his Marriage.

_Phil_. There's time enough, m
y Lord.

_Lord_. Come, come, Ladies, in troth you must take but little Rest to
Night, in complaisance to the Bride and Bridegroom, who, I believe, will
take but little--_Frank_--why, _Frank_--what, hast thou chang'd thy
Humour with thy Condition? Thou wert not wont to hear the Musick play
in vain.

_Bel_. My Lord, I cannot dance.

_Dia_. Indeed, you're wondrous sad,
And I, methinks, do bear thee Company,
I know not why; and yet excess of Joy
Have had the same Effects with equal Grief.

_Bel_. 'Tis true, and I have now felt the Extremes of both.

_Lord_. Why, Nephew _Charles_--has your Breeding at the Academy
instructed your Heels in no Motion?

_Char_. My Lord, I'll make one.

_Phil_. And I another, for Joy that my Brother's made happy in so fair
a Bride.

_Bel_. Hell take your Ignorance, for thinking I am happy,--
Wou'd Heaven wou'd strike me dead,
That by the loss of a poor wretched Life
I might preserve my Soul--But Oh, my Error!
That has already damn'd it self, when it consented
To break a Sacred Vow, and Marry here.

_Lord_. Come, come, begin, begin, Musick to your Office.

 [_Soft Musick_.

_Bel_. Why does not this hard Heart, this stubborn Fugitive,
Break with this Load of Griefs? but like ill Spirits
It promis'd fair, till it had drawn me in,
And then betray'd me to Damnation.

_Dia_. There's something of disorder in his Soul,
Which I'm on fire to know the meaning of.

 _Enter Sir_ Timothy, Sham, _and_ Sharp, _in Masquerade_.

Sir _Tim_. The Rogue is married, and I am so pleas'd, I can forgive him
our last Night's Quarrel. Prithee, _Sharp_, if thou canst learn that
young Thing's Name, 'tis a pretty airy Rogue, whilst I go talk to her.

_Sharp_. I will, Sir, I will.

 [_One goes to take out a Lady_.

_Char_. Nay, Madam, you must dance. [_Dance_.

_Bel_. I hope you will not call it Rudeness, Madam, if I refuse you here.

 [_The Lady that danced goes to take out the Bridegroom. After the
 Dance she takes out Sir_ Timothy, _they walk to a Courant_.

Am I still tame and patient with my Ills?
Gods! what is Man,
 that he can live and bear,
Yet know his Power to rid himself of Grief?
I will not live; or if my Destiny
Compel me to't, it shall be worse than dying.

 _Enter_ Page _with a Table-Book_.

_Bel_. What's this?

_Page_. The Answer of a Letter, Sir, you sent the divine _Celinda_;
for so it was directed.

_Bel_.--Hah--_Celinda_--in my Croud of Thoughts
I had forgot I sent--come nearer, Boy--
What did she say to thee?--Did she not smile?
And use thee with Contempt and Scorn?--tell me.

_Page_. How scorn, Sir!

_Bel_. Or she was angry--call'd me perjur'd Villain,
False, and forsworn--nay, tell me truth.

_Page_. How, Sir?

_Bel_. Thou dost delay me--say she did, and please me.

_Page_. Sir!

_Bel_. Again--tell me, what answer, Rascal, did she send me?

_Page_. You have it, Sir, there in the Table-Book.

_Bel_. Oh, I am mad, and know not what I do.
--Prithee forgive me, Boy--take breath, my Soul,
Before thou do'st begin; for this--perhaps, may be
So cruel kind,
To leave thee none when thou hast ended it.
 [_Opens it, and reads_.

 LETTER.

 _I have took in the Poison which you sent, in those few fatal
 Words, "Forgive me, my_ Celinda, _I am married"--'Twas
 thus you said--And I have only Life left to return, "Forgive
 me my sweet_ Bellmour, _I am dead_." CELINDA.

Can I hear this, and live?--I am a Villian!
In my Creation destin'd for all Mischief,
--To commit Rapes, and Murders, to break Vows,
As fast as Fools do Jests.
Come hither, Boy--
And said the Lady nothing to thee?

_Page_. Yes, e'er she read the Letter, ask'd your Health,
And Joy dispers'd it self in Blushes through her Cheeks.

_Bel_. Her Beauty makes the very Boy adore it.

_Page_. And having read it,
She drew her Tablets from her Pocket,
And trembling, writ what I have brought you, Sir.

_Bel_. Though I before had loaded up my Soul
With Sins, that wou'd have weigh'd down any other,
Yet this one more it bears, this Sin of Murder;
And holds out still--What have I more to do,
But being plung'd in Blood, to wade it through?

 _Enter_ Friendlove _in Masquerade. 
A Jigg_.

_Friend_. There stands the Traitor, with a guilty Look,
That Traitor, who the easier to deceive me,
Betray'd my Sister; yet till I came and saw
The Perjury, I could not give a Faith to't.
By Heaven, _Diana_ loves him, nay, dotes on him,
I find it in her Eyes; all languishing,
They feed the Fire in his: arm'd with a double Rage,
I know I shall go through with my Revenge.

Sir _Tim_. Fair Maid--

_Phil_. How do you know that, Sir?

Sir _Tim_. I see y'are fair, and I guess you're a Maid.

_Phil_. Your Guess is better than your Eye-sight, Sir.

Sir _Tim_. Whate'er you are, by Fortune, I wish you would permit me to
love you with all your Faults.

_Phil_. You? Pray who are you?

Sir _Tim_. A Man, a Gentleman--and more, a Knight too, by Fortune.

_Phil_. Then 'twas not by Merit, Sir--But how shall I know you are
either of these?

Sir _Tim_. That I'm a Man, the Effects of my vigorous Flame shall prove
--a Gentleman, my Coat of Arms shall testify; and I have the King's
Patent for my Title.

_Phil_. For the first you may thank your Youth, for the next your Father,
and the last your Money.

Sir _Tim_. By Fortune, I love thee for thy Pertness.

_Phil_. Is it possible you can love at all?

Sir _Tim_. As much as I dare.

_Phil_. How do you mean?

Sir _Tim_. Not to be laught at; 'tis not the Mode to love much; A
Platonick <DW2> I have heard of, but this is an Age of sheer Enjoyment,
and little Love goes to that; we have found it incommode, and loss of
time, to make long Addresses.

 _Enter_ Celinda _like a Boy_.

_Phil_. I find, Sir, you and I shall never agree upon this matter;
But see, Sir, here's more Company.

_Cel_. Oh Heaven! 'tis true, these Eyes confirm my Fate.
Yonder he is--and that fair splendid Thing,
That gazes on him with such kind Desire,
Is my blest Rival--Oh, he is married!
--Gods! And yet you let him live;
Live too with all his Charms, as fine and gay,
As if you meant he shou'd undo all easy Maids,
And kill 'em for their Sin of loving him.
Wretched _Celinda_!
But I must turn my Eyes from looking on
T
he fatal Triumphs of my Death--Which of all these
Is my Brother? Oh, that is he: I know him
By the Habit he sent for to the Play-House.
 [Points to Sir Tim.
And hither he's come in Masquerade,
I know with some Design against my _Bellmour_,
Whom though he kill me, I must still preserve:
Whilst I, lost in despair, thus as a Boy
Will seek a Death from any welcome Hand,
Since I want Courage to perform the Sacrifice.

 _Enter one and dances an Entry, and a Jig at the end on't_.

_Lord_. Enough, enough at this time, let's see the Bride to bed, the
Bridegroom thinks it long.

_Friend_. Hell! Can I endure to hear all this with Patience?
Shall he depart with Life to enjoy my Right,
And to deprive my Sister of her due?
--Stay, stay, and resign
That Virgin.

_Bel_. Who art thou that dar'st lay a Claim to ought that's here?

_Friend_. This Sword shall answer ye.
 [_Draws_.

_Bel_. Though I could spare my Life, I'll not be robb'd of it.
 [_Draws_.

_Dia_. Oh, my dear _Bellmour_!

 [_All draw on_ Bellmour's side_--Diana _holds_ Bellmour,
 Celinda _runs between their Swords, and defends_ Bellmour;
 _Sir_ Tim. Sham, _and_ Sharp _draw, and run into several
 Corners, with signs of Fear_.

_Friend_. Who art thou, that thus fondly guard'st his Heart?
 [_To_ Celinda.
--Be gone, and let me meet it.

_Cel_. That thou mayst do through mine, but no way else.

_Friend_. Here are too many to encounter, and I'll defer my Vengeance.

_Char_. Stay, Sir, we must not part so.

 [_Ex. Drawing at the same Door, that Sir_ Tim. _is sneaking out at_.

Come back I say. [_Pulls in Sir_ Tim.
Slave! Dost thou tremble?--

Sir _Tim_. Sir, I'm not the Man you look for--
By Fortune, _Sham_, we're all undone:
He has mistook me for the fighting Fellow.

_Char_. Villain, defend thy Life.

Sir _Tim_. Who, I, Sir? I have no quarrel to you, nor no man breathing,
not I, by Fortune.

_Cel_. This Coward cannot be my Brother. [_Aside_.

_Char_. What made thee draw upon my Brother?

Sir _Tim_. Who, I, Sir? by Fortune, I love him--I draw upon him!

_Char_. I do not won
der thou canst lye, for thou'rt a Coward!
Didst not thou draw upon him? Is not thy Sword yet out?
Did I not see thee fierce, and active too, as if thou hadst dar'd?

Sir _Tim_. Why, he's gone, Sir; a Pox of all Mistakes and Masqueradings
I say--this was your Plot, _Sham_.

_Char_. Coward! Shew then thy Face.

Sir _Tim_. I'll be hang'd first, by Fortune; for then 'twill be plain
'twas I, because I challeng'd _Bellmour_ last Night, and broke my
Assignation this Morning. [_Aside_.

_Char_. Shew thy Face without delay, or--

Sir _Tim_. My Face, Sir! I protest, by Fortune, 'tis not worth seeing.

_Char_. Then, Sirrah, you are worth a kicking--take that--and that--
 [_Kicks him_.

Sir _Tim_. How, Sir? how?

_Char_. So, Sir, so.
 [_Kicks him again_.

Sir _Tim_. Have a care, Sir--by Fortune, I shall fight with a little
more.

_Char_. Take that to raise you.
 [_Strikes him_.

Sir _Tim_. Nay, then I am angry, and I dare fight.

 [_They fight out_.

_Lord_. Go, Ladies, see the Bride to her Chamber.

 [_Ex. Women_.

_Bel_. The Knight, Sir _Timothy Tawdrey_;
--The Rascal mist me at the appointed place,
And comes to attack me here--
 [_Turns to_ Cel.
--Brave Youth, I know not how
I came to merit this Relief from thee:
Sure thou art a Stranger to me, thou'rt so kind.

_Cel_. Sir, I believe those happy ones that know you
Had been far kinder, but I'm indeed a Stranger.

_Bel_. Mayst thou be ever so to one so wretched;
I will not ask thy Name, lest knowing it,
(I'm such a Monster) I should ruin thee.

_Cel_. Oh, how he melts my Soul! I cannot stay,
Lest Grief, my Sex, my Bus'ness shou'd betray. [_Aside_.
--Farewel, Sir--
May you be happy in the Maid you love.
 [_Exit_ Cel.

_Bel_. O, dost thou mock my Griefs? by Heaven, he did.
--Stay, Sir, he's gone.

 _Enter_ Charles Bellmour.

_Char_. The Rogue took Courage, when he saw there was no Remedy; but
there's no hurt done on either side.

_Lord_. 'Tis fit such as he shou'd be chastis'd, that do abuse
Hospitality. Come, come, to Bed; the Lady, Sir, expects you.

_Bel_. Gentlemen, good 
Night.

 [_Exeunt_.

SCENE II_. A Bed Chamber_.

 _Enter_ Diana.

_Dia_. I long to know the Cause of _Bellmour's_ Disorder to Night, and
here he comes.

 _Enter_ Bellmour, Lord, Charles, _and the rest_.

_Char_. Shan't we see you laid, Brother?

_Bel_. Yes, in my Grave, dear _Charles_;
But I'll excuse that Ceremony here.

_Char_. Good Night, and no Rest to you, Brother.

 [_Ex. all but_ Bellmour _and_ Diana.

_Dia_. Till now, my _Bellmour_, I wanted Opportunity
To ask the Cause, why on a joyful Day,
When Heav'n has join'd us by a sacred Tie,
Thou droop'st like early Flowers with Winter-storms.

_Bel_. Thou art that Winter-storm that nips my Bud;
All my young springing Hopes, my gay Desires,
The prospect of approaching Joys of Love,
Thou in a hapless Minute hast took from me,
And in its room,
Hast given me an eternal Desperation.

_Dia_. Have you then given me Vows ye can repent of?

_Bel_. I given ye Vows! be witness, ye just Pow'rs,
How far I was from giving any Vows:
No, no, _Diana_, I had none to give.

_Dia_. No Vows to give!
What were they which unto the Holy Man
Thou didst repeat, when I was made all thine?

_Bel_. The Effects of low Submission, such as Slaves
Condemn'd to die, yield to the angry Judge.

_Dia_. Dost thou not love me then?

_Bel_. Love thee! No, by Heaven: yet wish I were so happy,
For thou art wondrous fair and wondrous good.

_Dia_. Oh, what a Defeat is here!
The only Man, who from all Nature's store
I found most charming, fit for my Desires;
And now after a thousand Expectations,
Such as all Maids that love like me do hope,
Just ready for the highest Joys of Love!
Then to be met thus cold--nay, worse, with scorn. [_Aside_.
--Why, since you could not love me, did you marry me?

_Bel_. Because I was a Beast, a very Villain!
That stak'd a wretched Fortune to all my Joys of Life,
And like a prodigal Gamester lost that all.

_Dia_. How durst you, Sir, knowing my Quality,
Return me this false Pay, for Love so true?
Was this a Beauty, Sir, to be neglected?

_Bel_. Fair angry Maid, frown on, frow
n till you kill,
And I shall dying bless those Eyes that did so.
For shou'd I live, I shou'd deprive the happier World
Of Treasures, I'm too wretched to possess.
And were't not pity that vast store of Beauty
Shou'd, like rich Fruit, die on the yielding Boughs?

_Dia_. And are you then resolved to be a Stranger to me?

_Bel_. For ever! for a long Eternity!

_Dia_. O thou'st undone me then; hast thou found out
A Maid more fair, more worthy of thy Love?
Look on me well.

_Bel_. I have consider'd thee,
And find no Blemish in thy Soul, or Form;
Thou art all o'er Divine, yet I must hate thee,
Since thou hast drawn me to a mortal Sin,
That cannot be forgiven by Men, or Heaven.
--Oh, thou hast made me break a Vow, _Diana_,
A sacred solemn Vow;
And made me wrong the sweetest Innocence,
That ever blest the Earth.

_Dia_. Instead of cooling this augments my Fire;
No Pain is like defeated new Desire. [_Aside_.
'Tis false, or but to try my Constancy.
Your Mistress is not so divine as I,
And shou'd I, 'gainst himself, believe the Man
Who first inspir'd my Heart with Love's soft Flame?

_Bel_. What Bliss on me insensibly you throw!
I'd rather hear thee swear, thou art my Foe,
And like some noble and romantick Maid
With Poniards wou'd my stubborn Heart invade;
And whilst thou dost the faithful Relique tear,
In every Vein thoud'st find _Celinda_ there.

_Dia_. Come, Sir, you must forget _Celinda's_ Charms,
And reap Delights within my circling Arms,
Delights that may your Errors undeceive,
When you find Joys as great as she can give.

_Bel_. What do I hear?--is this the kind Relief
Thou dost allow to my Despair and Grief?
Is this the Comfort that thou dost impart
To my all-wounded, bleeding, dying Heart?
Were I so brutal, cou'd thy Love comply
To serve it self with base Adultery?
For cou'd I love thee, cou'd I love again,
Our Lives wou'd be but one continu'd Sin:
A Sin of that black dye, a Sin so foul,
'Twou'd leave no Hopes of Heav'n for either's Soul.

_Dia_. Dull Man! Dost think a feeble vain Excuse
Shall satisfy me for this Ni
ght's abuse?
No, since my Passion thou'st defeated thus,
And robb'd me of my long-wish'd Happiness,
I'll make thee know what a wrong'd Maid can do,
Divided 'twixt her Love and Injuries too.

_Bel_. I dare thy worst;
Shou'd Hell assist thy Aims, thou cou'dst not find,
New Plagues, unless thou shou'dst continue kind,
Hard Fate, _Diana_, when thy Love must be
The greatest Curse that can arrive to me.
--That Friendship which our Infant Years begun,
And till this Day has still continued on,
I will preserve; and my Respects shall be
Profound, as what was ever paid by me:
But for my Love, 'tis to _Celinda_ due,
And I can pay you none that's just and true.

_Dia_. The rest I'd have thee know I do despise,
I better understand my conquering Eyes;
Those Eyes that shall revenge my Love and Shame,
I'll kill thy Reputation and thy Name.
 [_Exit_.

_Bel_. My Honour! and my Reputation, now!
They both were forfeit, when I broke my Vow,
Nor cou'd my Honour with thy Fame decline;
Whoe'er profanes thee, injures nought of mine.
This Night upon the Couch my self I'll lay,
And like _Franciscans_, let th'ensuing Day
Take care for all the Toils it brings with it;
Whatever Fate arrives, I can submit.

 [_Exit_.

SCENE III. _A Street_.

 _Enter_ Celinda, _drest as before_.

_Cel_. Not one kind Wound to send me to my Grave,
And yet between their angry Swords I ran,
Expecting it from _Bellmour_, or my Brother's:
Oh, my hard Fate! that gave me so much Misery,
And dealt no Courage to prevent the shock.
--Why came I off alive, that fatal Place
Where I beheld my _Bellmour_, in th'embrace
Of my extremely fair, and lovely Rival?
--With what kind Care she did prevent my Arm,
Which (greedy of the last sad-parting twine)
I wou'd have thrown about him, as if she knew
To what intent I made the passionate Offer?
--What have I next to do, but seek a Death
Wherever I can meet it--Who comes here? [_Goes aside_.

 _Enter Sir_ Timothy, Sham _and_ Sharp, _with Fidlers and Boy_.

Sir _Tim_. I believe this is the Bed-chamber Window where the Bride
and Bridegroo
m lies.

_Sham_. Well, and what do you intend to do, if it be, Sir?

Sir _Tim_. Why, first sing a Baudy Song, and then break the Windows,
in revenge for the Affront was put upon me to night.

_Sharp_. Faith, Sir, that's but a poor Revenge, and which every Footman
may take of his Lady, who has turn'd him away for filching--You know,
Sir, Windows are frail, and will yield to the lusty Brickbats; 'tis an
Act below a Gentleman.

Sir _Tim_. That's all one, 'tis my Recreation; I serv'd a Woman so the
other night, to whom my Mistress had a Pique.

_Sham_. Ay, Sir, 'tis a Revenge fit only for a Whore to take--And the
Affront you receiv'd to Night, was by mistake.

Sir _Tim_. Mistake! how can that be?

_Sham_. Why, Sir, did you not mind, that he that drew upon _Bellmour_,
was in the same Dress with you.

Sir _Tim_. How shou'd his be like mine?

_Sham_. Why, by the same Chance, that yours was like his--I suppose
sending to the Play-house for them, as we did, they happened to send
him such another Habit, for they have many such for dancing Shepherds.

Sir _Tim_. Well, I grant it a Mistake, and that shall reprieve the
Windows.

_Sharp_. Then, Sir, you shew'd so much Courage, that you may bless the
Minute that forc'd you to fight.

Sir _Tim_. Ay, but between you and I, 'twas well he kick'd me first,
and made me angry, or I had been lustily swing'd, by Fortune--But thanks
to my Spleen, that sav'd my Bones that bout--But then I did well--hah,
came briskly off, and the rest.

_Sham_. With Honour, Sir, I protest.

Sir _Tim_. Come then, we'll serenade him. Come, Sirrah, tune your Pipes,
and sing.

_Boy_. What shall I sing, Sir?

Sir _Tim_. Any thing sutable to the Time and Place.

 SONG.

 I.

 _The happy Minute's come, the Nymph is laid,
 Who means no more to rise a Maid.
 Blushing, and panting, she expects th'Approach
 Of Joys that kill with every touch:
 Nor can her native Modesty and Shame
 Conceal the Ardour of her Virgin Flame_.

 II.

 _And now the amorous Youth is all undrest,
 Just ready for Love's mighty Feast;
 With vig
orous haste the Veil aside he throws,
 That doth all Heaven at once disclose.
 Swift as Desire, into her naked Arms
 Himself he throws, and rifles all her Charms_.

Good morrow, Mr. _Bellmour_, and to your lovely Bride, long may you
live and love.

 _Enter_ Bellmour _above_.

_Bel_. Who is't has sent that Curse?

Sir _Tim_. What a Pox, is that _Bellmour_? The Rogue's in choler, the
Bride has not pleas'd him.

_Bel_. Dogs! Do you upbraid me? I'll be with you presently.

Sir _Tim_. Will you so?--but I'll not stay your coming.

_Cel_. But you shall, Sir.

_Bel_. Turn, Villains!

 [_Sir_ Tim. _&c. offers to go off_, Celinda _steps forth, and
 draws, they draw, and set upon her. Enter_ Bellmour _behind them:
 They turn, and_ Celinda _sides with_ Bellmour, _and fights. Enter_
 Diana, Bellmour _fights 'em out, and leaves_ Celinda _breathless,
 leaning on her Sword_.

_Dia_. I'll ne'er demand the cause of this disorder,
But take this opportunity to fly
To the next hands will take me up--who's here?

_Cel_. Not yet, my sullen Heart!

_Dia_. Who's here? one wounded--alas--

_Cel_. 'Tis not so lucky--but who art thou
That dost with so much pity ask?

_Dia_. He seems a Gentleman--handsome and young-- [_Aside_.
Pray ask no Questions, Sir; but if you are what you seem,
Give a Protection to an unhappy Maid.
--Do not reply, but let us haste away.

_Cel_. Hah--What do I hear! sure, 'tis _Diana_.
--Madam, with haste, and joy, I'll serve you.
--I'll carry her to my own Lodgings.
Fortune, in this, has done my Sufferings right,
My Rival's in my Power, upon her Wedding-Night. [_Aside_.

 [_Exeunt_.

 _Enter_ Bellmour, _Sir_ Tim. Sham, _and_ Sharp.

Sir _Tim_. Lord, Lord, that you should not know your Friend and humble
Servant, _Tim. Tawdrey_--But thou look'st as if thou hadst not been
a-bed yet.

_Bel_. No more I have.

Sir _Tim_. Nay, then thou losest precious time, I'll not detain thee.
 [_Offers to go_.

_Bel_. Thou art mistaken, I hate all Woman-kind--

Sir _Tim_. How, how!

_Bel_, Above an Hour--hark ye, Knight--I am as leud, and
 as debaucht
as thou art.

Sir _Tim_. What do you mean, _Frank_?

_Bel_. To tell a Truth, which yet I never did.
--I whore, drink, game, swear, lye, cheat, rob, pimp, hector, all,
all I do that's vitious.

Sir _Tim_. Bless me!

_Bel_. From such a Villian, hah!

Sir _Tim_. No, but that thou should'st hide it all this while.

_Bel_. Till I was married only, and now I can dissemble it no longer--
come--let's to a Baudy-House.

Sir _Tim_. A Baudy-house! What, already!
This is the very quintessence of Leudness.
--Why, I thought that I was wicked, but, by Fortune,
This dashes mine quite out of Countenance.

_Bel_. Oh, thou'rt a puny Sinner!--I'll teach thee Arts (so rare) of Sin,
the least of them shall damn thee.

Sir _Tim_. By Fortune, _Frank_, I do not like these Arts.

_Bel_. Then thou'rt a Fool--I'll teach thee to be rich too.

Sir _Tim_. Ay, that I like.

_Bel_. Look here, my Boys!
 [_Hold up his Writings, which he takes out of his Pockets_.
The Writings of 3000 pounds a Year:
--All this I got by Perjury.

Sir _Tim_. By Fortune, a thriving Sin.

_Bel_. And we will live in Sin while this holds out.
_And then to my cold Home--Come let's be gone:
Oh, that I ne'er might see the rising Sun_.

 [_Exeunt_.

ACT IV.

SCENE I. Celinda's _Chamber_.

 _Discovers_ Celinda _as before sitting in a Chair_,
 Diana _by her in another, who sings_.

 SONG.

 I.

 Celinda, _who did Love disdain,
 For whom had languished many a Swain,
 Leading her bleating Flocks to drink,
 She spy'd upon the River's brink
 A Youth, whose Eyes did well declare
 How much he lov'd, but lov'd not her_.

 II.

 _At first she laugh'd, but gaz'd the while,
 And soon it lessen'd to a Smile;
 Thence to surprize and wonder came,
 Her Breast to heave, her Heart to flame;
 Then cry'd she out, Ah, now I prove
 Thou art a God, Almighty Love_.

 III.

 _She wou'd have spoke, but Shame deny'd,
 And bad her first consult her Pride;
 But soon she found that Aid was gone,
 For Love, alas, had left her none.
 Oh, how she burns, but 'tis too late,
 For in his Eyes she r
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Mary Meehan
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

 THE HUNT BALL MYSTERY

 BY SIR WILLIAM MAGNAY, Bt.

Author of "A Prince of Lovers," "The Mystery of the Unicorn," etc., etc.

 1918

Contents

Chap

 I THE INTRUDER

 II THE STAINED FLOWERS

 III THE STREAK ON THE CUFF

 IV THE MISSING GUEST

 V THE LOCKED ROOM

 VI THE MYSTERY OF CLEMENT HENSHAW

 VII THE INCREDULITY OF GERVASE HENSHAW

 VIII KELSON'S PERPLEXITY

 IX THE CLOAK OF NIGHT

 X AN ALARMING DISCOVERY

 XI GIFFORD'S COMMISSION

 XII HAD HENSHAW A CLUE?

 XIII WHAT GIFFORD SAW IN THE WOOD

 XIV GIFFORD'S PERPLEXITY

 XV ANOTHER DISCOVERY

 XVI AN EXPLANATION

 XVII WHAT A GIRL SAW

 XVIII THE LOST BROOCH

 XIX IN THE CHURCHYARD

 XX AN INVOLUNTARY EAVESDROPPER

 XXI GIFFORD CONTINUES HIS STORY

 XXII HOW GIFFORD ESCAPED

 XXIII EDITH MORRISTON'S STORY

 XXIV HOW THE STORY ENDED

 XXV DEFIANCE

 XXVI ISSUE JOINED

 XXVII GIFFORD'S REWARD

CHAPTER I

THE INTRUDER

"I'm afraid it must have gone on in the van, sir."

"Gone on!" Hugh Gifford exclaimed angrily. "But you had no business to
send the train on till all the luggage was put out."

"The guard told me that all the luggage for Branchester was out," the
porter protested deprecatingly. "You see, sir, the train was nearly
twenty minutes late, and in his hurry to get off he must have overlooked
your suit-case."

"The very thing I wanted most," the owner returned. "I say, Kelson," he
went on, addressing a tall, soldierly man who strolled up, "a nice thing
has happened; the train has gone off with my evening clothes."

Kelson whistled. "Are you sure?"

"Quite." Gifford appealed to the porter, who regretfully confirmed the
statement.

"That's awkward to-night," Kelson commented with a short laugh of
annoyance. "Look here, we'd better interview the station-master, and have
your case wired for to the next stop. I am sorry, old fellow, I kept you
talking instead of letting you look after your rattle-traps, but I was so
glad to see you again after all this long time."

"Th
anks, my dear Harry, you've nothing to blame yourself about. It was my
own fault being so casual. The nuisance is that if I don't get the
suit-case back in time I shan't be able to go with you to-night."

"No," his friend responded; "that would be a blow. And it's going to
be a ripping dance. Dick Morriston, who hunts the hounds, is doing the
thing top-hole. Now let's see what the worthy and obliging Prior can
do for us."

The station-master was prepared to do everything in his power, but
that did not extend to altering the times of the trains or shortening
the mileage they had to travel. He wired for the suit-case to be put
out at Medford, the next stop, some forty miles on, and sent back by
the next up-train. "But that," he explained, "is a slow one and is
not due here till 9.47. However, I'll send it on directly it arrives,
and you should get it by ten o'clock or a few minutes after. You are
staying at the _Lion_?"

"Yes."

"Not more than ten or twelve minutes' drive. I'll do my best and there
shall be no delay."

The two men thanked him and walked out to the station yard, where a
porter waited with the rest of Gifford's luggage.

"There is a gentleman here going to the _Lion_" he said with a rather
embarrassed air; "I told him your fly was engaged, sir; but he said
perhaps you would let him share it with you."

Kelson looked black. "I like the way some people have of taking things
for granted. Cheek, I call it. He had better wait or walk."

"The gentleman said he was in a hurry, sir," the porter observed
apologetically.

"No reason why he should squash us up in the fly," Kelson returned. "I'll
have a word with the gentleman. Where is he?"

"I think he is in the fly, sir."

"The devil he is! We'll have him out, Hugh. Infernally cool." And he
strode off towards the waiting fly.

"Better see what sort of chap he is before you go for him, Harry,"
Gifford said deprecatingly as he followed. He knew his masterful friend's
quick temper, and anticipated a row.

"If you don't mind, this is my fly, sir," Kelson was sayi
ng as Gifford
reached him.

"The porter told me it was the _Golden Lion_ conveyance," a strong,
deeply modulated voice replied from the fly.

"And I think he told you it was engaged," Kelson rejoined bluffly.

"I did not quite understand that," the voice of the occupant replied in
an even tone. "I am sorry if there has been any misunderstanding; but as
I am going to the hotel--"

"That is no reason why you should take our fly," Kelson retorted, his
temper rising at the other's coolness. "I must ask you to vacate it at
once," he added with heat.

"How many of you are there?" The man leaned forward showing in the
doorway a handsome face, dark almost to swarthiness. "Only two? Surely
there is no need to turn me out. You don't want to play the dog in the
manger. There is room for all three, and I shall be happy to contribute
my share of the fare."

"I don't want anything of the sort--"

Kelson was beginning angrily when Gifford intervened pacifically.

"It is all right, Harry. We can squeeze in. The fellow seems more or less
a gentleman; don't let's be churlish," he added in an undertone.

"But it is infernal impudence," Kelson protested.

"Yes; but we don't want a row. It is not as though there was another
conveyance he could take."

"All right. I suppose we shall have to put up with the brute," Kelson
assented grudgingly. "But I hate being bounced like this."

Gifford took a step to the carriage-door. "I think we can all three pack
in," he said civilly.

"I'll take the front seat, if you like," the stranger said, without,
however, showing much inclination to move.

"Oh, no; stay where you are," Gifford answered. "I fancy I am the
smallest of the three; I shall be quite comfortable there. Come
along, Harry."

With no very amiable face Kelson got in and took the vacant seat by the
stranger. His attitude was not conducive to geniality, and so for a while
there was silence. At length as they turned from the station approach on
to the main road the stranger spoke. His deep-toned voice had a musical
ring in it, yet someh
ow to Gifford's way of thinking it was detestable.
Perhaps it was the speaker's rather aggressive and, to a man,
objectionable personality, which made it seem so.

"I am sorry to inconvenience you," he said, more with an air of saying
the right thing than from any real touch of regret. "On an occasion like
this they ought to provide more conveyances. But country towns are
hopeless."

"Oh, it is all right," Gifford responded politely. "The drive is not
very long."

"A mile?" The man's musical inflection jarred on Gifford, who began to
wonder whether their companion could be a professional singer. One of
their own class he certainly was not.

"I presume you gentlemen are going to the Hunt Ball?" he asked.

"Yes," Gifford answered.

"Rather a new departure having it in a private house," the man said.
"Quite a sound idea, I have no doubt Morriston will do us as well--much
better than we should fare at the local hotel or Assembly Rooms."

"Are you going?" They were the first words Kelson had uttered since the
start, and the slight surprise in their tone was not quite complimentary.
It must have so struck the other, seeing that he replied with a touch of
resentment:

"Yes. Why not?"

"No reason at all," Kelson answered, except that I don't remember to have
seen you out with the Cumberbatch."

"I dare say not," the other rejoined easily. "It is some years since I
hunted with them. I'm living down in the south now, and when I'm at home
usually turn out with the Bavistock. Quite a decent little pack, _faute
de mieux_; and Bobby Amphlett, who hunts them, is a great pal of mine."

"I see," Kelson observed guardedly. "Yes, I believe they are quite good
as far as they go."

The stranger gave a short laugh. "They, or rather a topping old dog-fox,
took us an eleven mile point the other day, which was good enough in that
country. Being in town I thought I would run down to this dance for old
acquaintance' sake. Dare say one will meet some old friends."

"No doubt," Kelson responded dryly.

"As you have been good enough to ask me
 to share your fly," the man
observed, with a rather aggressive touch of irony, "I may as well let you
know who I am. My name is Henshaw, Clement Henshaw."

"Any relation to Gervase Henshaw?" Gifford asked.

"He is my brother. You know him?"

"Only by reputation at my profession, the Bar. And I came across a book
of his the other day."

"Ah, yes. Gervase scribbles when he has time. He is by way of being an
authority on criminology."

"And is, I should say," Gifford added civilly.

"Yes; he is a smart fellow. Has the brains of the family. I'm all for
sport and the open-air life."

"And yet," thought Gifford, glancing at the dark, rather intriguing face
opposite to him, "you don't look a sportsman. More a _viveur_ than a
regular open-air man, more at home in London or Paris than in the
stubbles or covert." But he merely nodded acceptance of Henshaw's
statement.

"My name is Kelson," the soldier said, supplying an omission due to
Henshaw's talk of himself. "I have hunted this country pretty regularly
since I left the Service. And my friend is Hugh Gifford."

"Gifford? Did not Wynford Place where we are going to-night belong to the
Giffords?" Henshaw asked, curiosity overcoming tact.

"Yes," Gifford answered, "to an uncle of mine. He sold it lately to
Morriston."

"Ah; a pity. Fine old place," Henshaw observed casually. "Naturally you
know it well."

"I have had very good times there," Gifford answered, with a certain
reserve as though disinclined to discuss the subject with a stranger. "I
have come down now also for old acquaintance' sake," he added casually.

"I see," Henshaw responded. "Not altogether pleasant, though, to see an
old family place in the hands of strangers. Personally, when a thing is
irrevocably gone, as, I take it, Wynford Place is, I believe in letting
it slide out of one's mind, and having no sentiment about it."

"No doubt a very convenient plan," Gifford replied dryly. "All the same,
if I can retrieve my evening kit, which has gone astray, I hope to enjoy
myself at Wynford Place to-night witho
ut being troubled with undue
sentimentality."

"Good," Henshaw responded with what seemed a half-smothered yawn. "Regret
for a thing that is gone past recall does not pay; though as long as
there is a chance of getting it I believe in never calling oneself
beaten. Here we are at the _Lion_."

CHAPTER II

THE STAINED FLOWERS

"What do you think of our acquaintance?" Gifford said as they settled
down in the private room of Kelson, who made the _Golden Lion_ his
hunting quarters.

"Not much. In fact, I took a particular dislike to the fellow. Wrong type
of sportsman, eh?"

"Decidedly. Fine figure of a man and good-looking enough, but spoilt by
that objectionable, cock-sure manner."

"And I should say a by no means decent character."

"A swanker to the finger-tips. And that implies a liar."

"Not worth discussing," Kelson said. "He goes to-morrow. I made a point
of inquiring how long he had engaged his room for. One night."

"Good. Then we shan't be under the ungracious necessity of shaking him
off. I can't tell you how sick I am, Harry, at the loss of my things."

"No more than I am, my dear fellow. If only a suit of mine would fit you.
But that's hopeless."

They both laughed ruefully at the idea, for Captain Kelson looked nearly
twice the size of his friend.

"We'll hope they'll arrive in time for you to see something of the fun at
any rate," Kelson said. "I'm in no hurry; I'll wait with you."

"You will do nothing of the sort, Harry," Gifford protested. "Do you
think I can't amuse myself for an hour or two alone? You'll go off at the
proper time. Absurd to wait till every decent girl's card is full."

"I don't like it, Hugh."

"Nor do I. But it is practically my fault in not looking sharper after my
luggage, and better one should suffer than two."

So it was arranged that Captain Kelson should go on alone and his
guest should follow as soon as his clothes turned up and he could
change into them.

That settled, they sat down to dinner.

"Tell me about the Morristons, Harry," Gifford said. "He is a very good
fellow
, isn't he?"

"Dick Morriston? One of the best. Straight goer to hounds and straight in
every other capacity, I should say. You know they used to live at Friar's
Norton, near here, before they bought your uncle's place."

"Yes, I know. What is the sister like?"

"A fine, handsome girl," Kelson answered, without enthusiasm. "Rather too
cold and statuesque for my taste, although I have heard she has a bit of
the devil in her. Quite a sportswoman, and as good after hounds as her
brother. They say she had a thin time of it with her step-mother, and has
come out wonderfully since the old lady died. Lord Painswick, who lives
near here, is supposed to be very sweet on her. Perhaps the affair will
develop to-night. The ball will be rather a toney affair."

"Morriston has plenty of money?"

"Heaps. And the sister is an heiress too. The old man did not nearly live
up to his income and there were big accumulations."

"Which enabled the son to buy our property," Gifford said with a tinge
of bitterness. "Well, it might have been worse. Wynford has not passed
into the hands of some Jew millionaire or City speculator, but has gone
to a gentleman, a good fellow and a sportsman, eh?"

"Yes; Dick Morriston is all that. As the place had to go, you could not
have found a better man to succeed your people."

When the time came to start for the ball Gifford went down to see his
friend off and to repeat his orders concerning the immediate delivery of
his suit-case when it should arrive. Henshaw was in the hall, bulking big
in a fur coat and complaining in a masterful tone of the unpunctuality of
his fly. A handsome fellow, Gifford was constrained to acknowledge, and
of a strong, positive character; the type of man, he thought, who could
be very fascinating to women--and very brutal.

He dropped his rather bullying manner as he caught sight of the two
friends; and, noticing Gifford's morning clothes, made a casually
sympathetic remark on his bad luck.

"Oh, I shall come on when my things arrive, which ought to be soon,"
Gifford responde
d coldly, disliking the man and his rather obvious
insincerity.

"We might have driven over together," Henshaw said, addressing
Kelson. "But I hardly cared to propose it after the line you took at
the station."

There was an unpleasant curl of the lip as he spoke the words almost
vindictively, as though with intent to put Kelson in the wrong.

But his sneer had no effect on the ex-Cavalryman.

"I am driving over in my own trap," he replied coolly, ignoring the
other's intent. "You will be a good deal more comfortable in a closed
carriage."

"Decidedly," Henshaw returned with a laugh. "I am not so fond of an east
wind as to get more of it than can be helped. And, after all, it is best
to go independently to an affair of this sort. One may get bored and want
to leave early."

Kelson nodded with a grim appreciation of the man's trick of argument,
and went out to his waiting dog-cart. Henshaw's fly drove up as Gifford
turned back from the door.

"I suppose we shall see you towards midnight," he said lightly as he
passed Gifford, his tone clearly suggesting his utter indifference in
the matter.

"I dare say," Gifford replied, and as he went upstairs he heard an
order given for "Mr. Henshaw's fire in number 9 to be kept up against
his return."

Alone in the oak-panelled sitting-room Gifford settled down to wait for
his clothes. He skimmed through several picture-papers that were lying
about, and then took up a novel. But a restless fit was on him, and he
could not settle down to read. He threw aside the book and began thinking
of the old property which his uncle had muddled away, and recalling the
happy times he had spent there from his schooldays onwards. Memories of
the rambling old house and its park crowded upon him. By force of one
circumstance or another he had not been there for nearly ten years, and a
great impatience to see it again took hold of him. He looked at the
clock. At the best, supposing there were no hitch, his suit-case could
hardly arrive for another hour and a half. Wynford Place was a bare mile
a
way, perhaps twenty minutes' walk; the night was fine and moonlight, he
was getting horribly bored in that room; he would stroll out and have a
look at the outside of the old place. After all, it was only the exterior
that he could expect to find unaltered; doubtless the Morristons with
their wealth had transformed the interior almost out of his knowledge.
Anyhow he would see that later. Just then he simply longed for a sight of
the ancient house with its detached tower and the familiar landmarks.

Accordingly he filled a pipe, put on a thick overcoat and a golf cap and
went out, leaving word of his return within the hour.

But it was a good two hours before he reappeared, and the landlord, who
met him with the news that the missing suit-case had been awaiting him in
his room since twenty minutes past ten, was struck by a certain
peculiarity in his manner. It was nothing very much beyond a suggestion
of suppressed excitement and that rather wild look which lingers in a
man's eyes when he is just fresh from a dispute or has experienced a
narrow escape from danger. Then Gifford ordered a stiff glass of spirits
and soda and drank it off before going up to change.

"Shall you be going to Wynford Place, sir?" the landlord inquired as he
glanced at the clock.

Gifford hesitated a moment. "Yes. Let me have a fly in a quarter of an
hour," he answered.

But it was more than double that time when he came down dressed for
the dance.

The old house looked picturesque enough in the moonlight as he approached
it. All the windows in the main building were lighted up, and there was a
pleasant suggestion of revelry about the ivy-clad pile. Standing some
dozen yards from the house, but connected with it by a covered way, was a
three-storied tower, the remains of a much older house, and from the
lower windows of this lights also shone.

Gifford entered the well-remembered hall and made his way, almost in a
dream, to the ball-room, where many hunting men in pink made the scene
unusually gay. Unable for the moment to catch sight of K
elson, he had to
introduce himself to his host, who had heard of his mishap and gave him a
cheerily sympathetic welcome. Richard Morriston was a pleasant-looking
man of about five or six-and-thirty, the last man, Gifford thought, he
would bear a grudge against for possessing the old home of the Giffords.

"I'm afraid you must look upon me rather in the light of an intruder
here," Morriston said pleasantly.

"A very acceptable one so far as I am concerned," Gifford responded with
something more than empty civility.

"It is very kind of you to say so," his host rejoined. "Anyhow the least
I can do is to ask you with all sincerity to make yourself free of the
place while you are in the neighbourhood. Edith," he called to a tall,
handsome girl who was just passing on a man's arm, "this is Mr. Gifford,
who knows Wynford much better than we do."

Miss Morriston left her partner and held out her hand. "We were so
sorry to hear of your annoying experience," she said. "These railway
people are too stupid. I am so glad you retrieved your luggage in time
to come on to us."

Gifford was looking at her with some curiosity during her speech, and
quickly came to the conclusion that Kelson's description of her had
certainly not erred on the side of exaggeration. She looked divinely
handsome in her ball-dress of a darkish shade of blue, relieved by a
bunch of roses in her corsage and a single diamond brooch. Statuesque,
too statuesque, Kelson had called her; certainly her manner and bearing
had a certain cold stateliness, but Gifford had penetration enough to
see that behind the reserve and the society tone of her welcome there
might easily be a depth of feeling which his friend with a lesser
knowledge of human nature never suspected. An interesting girl,
decidedly, Gifford concluded as he made a suitable acknowledgment of her
greeting, and, I fancy, my friend Harry takes a rather too superficial
view of her character, he thought, as strolling off in search of
Kelson, he found himself watching his hostess from across the room wit
h
more than ordinary interest.

He soon encountered Kelson coming out of a gaily decorated passage which
he knew led to the old tower. He had a pretty girl on his arm, tall and
fair, but with none of Miss Morriston's dignified coldness. This girl had
a sunny, laughing face, and Gifford thought he understood why his friend
had not been enthusiastic over the probable Lady Painswick.

Kelson, receiving him with delight, introduced him, with an air of
proprietorship it seemed, to his companion, Miss Tredworth.

"Have you been exploring the old tower?" Gifford asked.

"We've been sitting out there," Kelson answered with a laugh. "They have
converted the lower rooms into quite snug retreats."

"In my uncle's day they were anything but snug," Gifford observed. "I
remember we used to play hide-and-seek up there."

He spoke with preoccupation, his eyes fixed on a bunch of white flowers
which the girl wore on her black dress. They were slightly blotched and
sprinkled with a dark colour in a way which was certainly not natural,
and Gifford, held by the peculiar sight, looked in wonder from the
flowers to the girl's face.

"You must give Gifford a dance," Kelson said, breaking up the rather
awkward pause.

"I'm afraid my card is full," Miss Tredworth said, holding it up.

Kelson laughed happily. "Then he shall have one of mine."

But Gifford protested. "Indeed I won't rob you, Harry," he declared. "I'm
tired, and should be a stupid partner."

"Tired?" Kelson remonstrated. "Why, you have been resting at the _Lion_
waiting for your things while we have been dancing our hardest."

"Resting? No; I went out for a walk," Gifford replied.

"The deuce you did! Where did you go to?"

"Oh, nowhere particular," Gifford answered rather evasively. "Just about
the town."

CHAPTER III

THE STREAK ON THE CUFF

Hugh Gifford did not stay very long at the dance. He took a mouthful of
supper, and then told Kelson that he had a headache and was going to walk
back to the _Golden Lion_.

Kelson was distressed. "My dear fellow, coming so late and g
oing so
early, it's too bad. This is the best time of the night. I hope the old
place with its memories hasn't distressed you."

"Oh, no," was the answer. "But something has upset me. I'll get back and
turn in. By the way, I don't see that man Henshaw."

"No," Kelson replied casually; "I haven't seen him lately. But then I've
had something better to think about than that ineffable bounder. He was
here all right in the early part of the evening. One couldn't see
anything else."

"Dancing?"

"More or less. Well, if you will go, old fellow, do make yourself
comfortable at the _Lion_ and call for anything you fancy. I'm dancing
this waltz."

Gifford left the dance and went back to the hotel. He seemed perplexed
and worried, so much so that for some time he paced his room restlessly
and then, instead of turning in, he went back to the sitting-room,
lighted a pipe, and settled himself there to await his friend's return.

It was nearly three o'clock when Kelson came in.

"Why, Hugh!" he exclaimed in surprise. "Still up?"

"I didn't feel like sleeping," Gifford answered, "and if I'm to keep
awake I'd rather stay up."

Kelson looked at him curiously. "I hope the visit to your old home hasn't
been too much for you," he remarked with the limited sympathy of a strong
man whose nerves are not easily affected.

"Oh, no," Gifford assured him. "Although somehow I did feel rather out
of it. I have had rather a teasing day, but I shall be all right in the
morning, and am looking forward to a run round the scenes of my
childhood."

"Good," Kelson responded, relieved to think his friend's visit was not
after all going to be as dismal as he had begun to fear. "Well, Hugh," he
added gaily. "I have a piece of news for you."

"Not that you are engaged?"

Something, an almost apprehensive touch, in Gifford's tone rather took
his friend aback.

"Why not?"

"To Miss--the girl you were dancing with?"

Again Gifford's tone gave a check to Kelson's enthusiasm.

It was with a more serious face that he replied, "Muriel Tredworth, the
best girl 
in England. I hope, my dear Hugh, you are not going to say you
don't think so."

"Certainly not," Gifford answered promptly. "I never saw or heard of her
before to-night."

Kelson laughed uncomfortably. A man in love and in the flush of
acceptance wants something more than a lukewarm reception of the news.
"I'm glad to hear it," he responded dryly. "From your tone one might
almost imagine that you knew something against Muriel."

"Heaven forbid!" Gifford ejaculated fervently.

"You don't congratulate me," his friend returned with a touch of
suspicion.

Gifford forced a laugh. "My dear Harry, you have taken my breath away.
You deserve the best wife in the kingdom, and I sincerely hope you have
got her," he said, not very convincingly.

His half-heartedness, not too successfully masked, evidently struck
Kelson. "One would hardly suppose you thought so," he said in a hurt
tone. "I wish," he added warmly, "if there is anything at the back of
your words you would speak out. I should hope we are old friends enough
for that."

Gifford glanced at the worried face of the big, simple-minded sportsman,
more or less a child in his knowledge of the subtleties of human nature,
and as he did so his heart smote him.

"We are, and I hope we always shall be," he declared, grasping his hand.
"You are making too much of my unfortunate manner to-night, and I'm
sorry. With all my heart I congratulate you, and wish you every blessing
and all happiness."

There was an unmistakable ring of sincerity in his speech now, and,
without going aside to question its motive, as a more penetrating
mind might have done, Kelson accepted his friend's congratulations
without question.

"Thanks, old fellow," he responded, brightening as he returned the grasp
of Gifford's hand. "I was sure of your good wishes. You need not fear I
have made a mistake. Muriel is a thorough good sort, and we shall suit
each other down to the ground. We've every chance of happiness."

Before Gifford could reply there came a knock at the door. The
landlord entered.

"Beg you
r pardon, captain," he said, "I'm sorry to trouble you, but could
you tell me whether they are keeping up the Hunt Ball very late?"

"No, Mr. Dipper," Kelson answered. "It was all over long ago. I was one
of the last to come away. We left to the strains of the National Anthem."

Mr. Dipper's face assumed a perplexed expression.

"Thank you, captain," he said. "My reason for asking the question is that
Mr. Henshaw, who has a room here, has not come in."

"Not come in?" Kelson repeated. "Too bad to keep you up, Mr. Dipper."

"Well, captain," said the landlord, "you see it is getting on for four
o'clock, and we want to lock up. Of course if the ball was going on we
should be prepared to keep open all night if necessary. But my drivers
told me an hour ago it was over."

"So it was. I wonder"--Kelson turned to Gifford--"what can have become of
the egregious Henshaw. I don't think, as I told you in the ball-room, I
have seen him since ten o'clock."

Gifford shrugged. "Unless he has come across friends and gone off
with them."

"He couldn't well do that without calling here for his things,"
Kelson objected. "I suppose he did not do that, unknown to you?" he
asked the landlord.

"No, captain. His things are all laid out in his room, and the fire kept
up as he ordered."

"Then I don't know what has become of him," Kelson returned, manifestly
not interested in the subject. "I certainly should not keep open any
longer. If Mr. Henshaw turns up at an unreasonable hour, let him wait and
get in when he can. Don't you think so, Hugh?"

Gifford nodded. "I think, considering the hour, Mr. Dipper will be quite
justified in locking up," he answered.

"Thank you, gentlemen; I will. Goodnight," and the landlord departed.

Kelson turned to a side table and poured out a drink.

"Decent fellow, Dipper, and uniformly obliging," he said. "I certainly
don't see why he should be inconvenienced and kept out of his bed by that
swanker, who has probably gone off with some pal and hasn't had the
decency to leave word to that effect. Bad style of
 man altogether. Hullo!
What's this?"

"What's the matter?"

Gifford crossed to Kelson, who was looking at his shirt-cuff.

"What's this?"

A dark red streak was on the white linen.

"Hanged if it doesn't look like blood," Kelson said, holding it to
the light.

Gifford caught his arm and scrutinized the stain.

"It is blood," he said positively.

CHAPTER IV

THE MISSING GUEST

Next morning Captain Kelson took his guest for a long drive round the
neighbourhood. Before starting he asked the landlord at what time Henshaw
had returned.

"He didn't come in at all, captain," Dipper answered in an aggrieved
tone. "His fire was kept up all night for nothing."

"I suppose he has been here this morning," Kelson observed casually.

"No," was the prompt reply. "Nothing has been seen or heard of him here
since he left last night for the ball."

Kelson whistled. "That looks rather queer, doesn't it, Hugh?"

Gifford nodded. "Very, I should say. What do you make of it?" he asked
the landlord.

That worthy spread out his hands in a gesture of helplessness. "It's
beyond me, gentlemen. We can none of us make it out. I've never known
anything quite like it happen all the years I've been in the business."

"Oh, you'll have an explanation in the course of the morning all right,"
said Kelson with a smile at the host's worry. "Don't take it too
seriously; it isn't worth it. You've got Mr. Henshaw's luggage, which
indemnifies you, and he is manifestly a person quite capable of taking
care of himself."

Mr. Dipper gave a doubtful jerk of the head. "It is very mysterious all
the same."

Kelson laughed as he went off with his friend.

"I'm afraid I can't get up much interest in the doings of the
objectionable Henshaw," he remarked lightly as they started off. "Such
men as he know what they are about, and are not too punctilious with
regard to other people's inconvenience."

"No," Gifford responded quietly. "All the same, his non-appearance is a
little mysterious."

Kelson blew away the suggestion of mystery in a short,
contemptuous laugh.


"Oh, he is probably up to some devilry with some fool of a girl," he
said in an offhand tone. "I know the type of man. They have a keen scent
for impressionable women, of whom a fellow of that sort has always
half-a-dozen in tow. No doubt that is what he came down here for--a
tender adventure. That's the only kind of hunting he is keen on, take my
word for it."

"I quite agree with you there," Gifford answered with conviction, and the
subject dropped.

When they returned for luncheon they found that nothing had been heard of
the _Golden Lion's_ missing guest.

"It is rather an extraordinary move of our friend's," Kelson observed
with a laugh. "He surely can't be living all this time in his evening
clothes. Not but what a man like that would not let a trifle stand in his
way if he had some scampish sport in view. No doubt he is up to a dodge
or two by way of obviating these little difficulties."

In the afternoon the two friends went up to Wynford Place to call after
the dance. Kelson had naturally been much more inclined to drive over to
the Tredworths, about seven miles away, in order to settle his betrothal,
but Gifford suggested that the duty call should be paid first, and so it
was arranged. To Kelson's delight he heard that Muriel Tredworth and her
brother were coming over next day to stay with the Morristons for another
dance in the neighbourhood and a near meet of the hounds; so he, warming
to the Morristons, chatted away in all a lover's high spirits.

"By the way," he said presently, as they sat over tea, "rather an
extraordinary thing has happened at the _Golden Lion_."

"What's that?" asked his host.

"Did you notice a man named Henshaw here last night? A big, dark fellow,
probably a stranger to you, but by way of being a former follower of the
Cumberbatch."

"An old fellow?" Morriston asked.

"Oh, no. About six-and-thirty, I should say; eh, Hugh?"

"Under forty, certainly," Gifford answered.

"Tall and very dark, almost to swarthiness; of course I remember the
man."

Morriston exclaimed with sudden re
collection. "I introduced him to
a partner."

"I noticed the fellow," observed Lord Painswick, who also was calling.
"Theatrical sort of chap. What has he done?"

Kelson laughed. "Simply disappeared, that's all."

"Disappeared!" There was a chorus of interest.

"How do you mean?" Morriston asked.

"Left the hotel at nine last night and has never turned up since," Kelson
said with an air of telling an amusing story. "Poor Host Dipper is taking
it quite tragically, notwithstanding the satisfactory point in the case
that the egregious Henshaw's elaborate kit still remains in his
unoccupied bedroom."

"Do you mean to say he never came back all night?" Miss Morriston asked.

"Never," Kelson assured her. "Old Dipper came to us, half asleep, at four
o'clock to ask whether he was justified in locking up the establishment."

"And nothing has been seen or heard of the man since," Gifford put in.

"That is queer," Morriston said, as though scarcely knowing whether to
take it seriously or otherwise. "Now I come to think of it I don't
recollect seeing anything of the man after quite the first part of the
evening. Did you, Painswick?"

"No, can't say I did," Painswick answered.

"And," observed Kelson, "he was not a man to be easily overlooked when
he was on show. I missed him, not altogether disagreeably, after the
early dances."

"What is the idea?" Edith Morriston inquired. "Is there any theory to
account for his disappearance?"

"No," Kelson answered, "unless a discreditable one. Gone off at a
tangent."

"And still in his evening things?" Painswick said with a laugh. "Rather
uncomfortable this weather."

"That reminds me," Morriston said with sudden animation, "one of the
footmen brought me a fur coat and a soft hat this morning and asked me if
they were mine. They had been unclaimed after the dance and he had
ascertained that they belonged to none of the men who were staying here.
Nor were they mine."

"That is most curious," Kelson said with a mystified air. "Henshaw was
wearing a fur coat and soft hat when we saw him in
 the hall of the _Lion_
just before starting. Don't you remember, Hugh?"

"Yes; certainly he was," Gifford answered.

"Then they must be his," Morriston concluded.

"And where is he--without them?" Painswick added with a laugh.
"Dead of cold?"

"It is altogether quite mysterious," Morriston observed with a puzzled
air. "He can't be here still."

"Hardly," his sister replied. "You know him?" she asked Kelson.

"Quite casually. So far as nearly coming to a rough and tumble with the
fellow for his cheek in scoffing our fly at the station constitutes an
acquaintance. Gifford acted as peacemaker, and we put up with the
fellow's company to the town. But neither of us imbibed a particularly
high opinion of the sportsman, did we, Hugh?"

"No," Gifford assented; "his was not a taking character, to men at any
rate; and we rather wondered how he came to be going to the
Cumberbatch Ball."

"No doubt he got his ticket in the ordinary way," Morriston said.

"It only shows, my dear Dick," his sister observed, "you may quite easily
run risks in giving a semi-public dance in your own house."

Morriston laughed. "Oh, come, Edith," he protested, "we need not make too
much of it. We don't know for certain that the man was a queer
character."

"One finds objectionable swaggerers everywhere," Painswick put in.

"Anyhow," said Kelson, "if this Henshaw was a bad lot he had the decency
to efface himself promptly enough. The puzzle is, what on earth has
become of him?"

"I don't know, Mr. Gifford," Morriston said as the two friends were
leaving, "whether you would care for a ramble over the old place. A man
named Piercy has written to me for permission to go over the house; he
is, it appears, writing a book on the antiquities of the county. I have
asked him to luncheon to-morrow, and we shall be delighted if you and
Kelson will join us as a preliminary to a personally conducted tour of
the house. Charlie Tredworth and his sister are coming over for a week's
stay, so we shall be quite a respectable party."

Naturally Kelson accepted the in
vitation with alacrity, and Gifford could
do no less than fall in with the arrangement.

"Hope you won't mind going over to Wynford," Kelson said as they drove
back. "If it is at all painful to you from old associations, I'll make an
excuse for you."

Gifford hesitated a moment. "Oh, no," he answered. "I'll come. There is
no use in being sentimental about the place going out of our family, and
these Morristons are quite the right sort of people to have it. A
splendidly thoroughbred type of girl, Miss Morriston."

Kelson laughed. "Oh, yes; a magnificent creature; cut out for a duchess.
Only, you know, my dear Hugh, if I married a woman like that I should
always be a little afraid of her. A magnificent chatelaine and all that,
but too cold for my taste."

"You think there is no deep feeling under the ice of her manner?"

"I don't know," Kelson replied, as though the idea was quite novel to
him. "Never got so far as to think of that. I like a girl with whom you
can get on without going through the process of thawing her first. And
with Edith Morriston I should say it would be a slow process. Anyhow, she
is just the girl for Painswick, who is evidently after her."

"I should say that with him the ice is a little below the surface,"
Gifford ventured.

Kelson laughed. "You've hit it, Hugh. He's easy enough, but scratch him
and you come upon a very straight-laced aristocrat. He and the statuesque
Edith Morriston are made for one another."

As they entered the _Golden Lion_ the landlord met them.

"Well, Mr. Dipper, any news of your missing guest?" Kelson inquired with
characteristic cheeriness, ignoring the troubled expression on that
worthy's face.

"No, captain; and we can't imagine what has happened to Mr. Henshaw.
There are three telegrams come for him, and I have just got one,
reply-paid, to ask whether he is staying here."

"And you replied?"

"Went to Hunt Ball 9 last night. Not been here since," Dipper quoted. "It
is rather awkward and unpleasant for me, sir," he added uncomfortably.

"Oh, you've no responsibili
ty in the matter," Kelson assured him. "Don't
you worry about it, Mr. Dipper. If the man goes out and does not choose
to come back, that, beyond the payment of your charges, can be no affair
of yours. Isn't that so, Hugh?"

"Certainly," Gifford assented.

Still their host looked anything but satisfied.

"Yes, sir, that's quite right; all the same, we are beginning not to like
the look of it. It is very mysterious."

"It is, Mr. Dipper, to say the least of it," Kelson replied. "Still from
such opinion as we were able to form of Mr. Henshaw I don't think it
worth while making much fuss about it. He'll turn up all right and
probably call you a fool for your pains."

"I would not worry about it if I were you," Gifford said quietly.

As they turned to go upstairs a telegraph boy came in and handed his
message to the landlord, who read it and handed it to Kelson.

"Please wire me without fail directly Mr. Henshaw returns. Gervase
Henshaw, 8, Stone Court, Temple, London," Kelson read.

"That's his brother," Gifford observed.

"All right," said Kelson. "Let him worry if he likes. All you have to do,
Mr. Dipper, is what he asks you there."

He went upstairs with Gifford, leaving the landlord reperusing the
telegram, his plump face dark with misgiving.

CHAPTER V

THE LOCKED ROOM

That night the missing man did not return, nor was anything heard of him.
The morning brought no news, and even Kelson began to think there might
be something serious in it.

"If it was anybody but that man," he said casually over a hearty
breakfast, "I should say it would be worth while taking steps to find out
what had become of him. But that fellow can take care of himself; and
when you come to think of it, his coming down here, an outsider, to the
ball, was in itself rather fishy."

Gifford agreed, and they fell to discussing the day's plans. Kelson was
going to drive over to have the momentous interview with Miss Tredworth's
father. He anticipated no difficulty there; still, as he said, "The thing
has got to be done, and the sooner it is ove
r the better."

"Why not go to-morrow?" Gifford suggested. "There will be rather a
rush to-day."

Kelson, a man of action, scoffed at the idea. "Oh, no; Muriel and Charlie
are coming over to Wynford to luncheon. I shall simply get the thing
settled and drive back with them."

So it was arranged. Gifford spent the morning in a stroll about the
familiar neighbourhood, and when luncheon time came they all met at
Wynford Place. Miss Morriston was not present. Her brother apologized for
her absence, saying she had been obliged to keep an engagement to lunch
with a friend, but that she had promised to return quite early in the
afternoon. Mr. Piercy, the antiquarian, proved to be by no means as dry
as his pursuit suggested. He was a lively little man with a fund of
interesting stories furnished by the lighter side of his work, and
altogether the luncheon was quite amusing.

When it was over Morriston suggested that, not to waste the daylight,
they should begin their tour of the house; he called upon Gifford to
share the duties of guidance, and the party moved off.

"Hope you haven't been bored all the morning, Hugh," Kelson said to his
friend as they found themselves side by side. "Any news at the _Lion_?
Has Henshaw turned up yet?"

Gifford shook his head. "No. Host Dipper has had another telegram of
inquiry from the brother, but had nothing to tell him in return."

Kelson's face became grave. "It really does begin to look serious,"
he remarked.

"Yes; Dipper has been interviewing the police on the subject."

"Has he? Well, I only hope Henshaw has not been playing the fool, or
worse, and caused all this fuss for nothing."

The party moved on to the great hall where the dancing had taken
place, and so to the passage connecting the main building with the
ancient tower.

"Now this is the part which will no doubt interest you most, Mr. Piercy,"
Morriston said; "this fourteenth century tower, which is to-day in a
really wonderful state of preservation."

"Ah, yes," the archaeologist murmured; "they could build in those days
."

They examined the two lower rooms on the ground and first floors,
remarked on the thickness of the walls, shown by the depth of the window
embrasures, which in older days had been put to sterner purposes; they
admired the solid strength of the ties and hammer-beams in the roofs,
and scrutinized the few articles of ancient furniture and tapestry the
rooms contained, and the massive oaken iron-bound door which admitted to
the garden.

"Now we will go up to the top room," Morriston proposed. "It is used only
for lumber, but there is quite a good view from it."

He preceded the rest of the party up the winding stairs to the
topmost door.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed, pushing at it, "the door is locked. And the key
appears to have been taken away," he added, bending down and feeling
about in the imperfect light.

The whole party was consequently held up on the narrow stairs. "I'll
go and ask what has become of the key," Morriston said, making his way
past them.

In a minute he returned, presently followed by the butler.

"How is it that this top door is locked, Stent?" he asked. "And where
is the key?"

"I don't know, sir. Alfred mentioned this morning that the door was
locked and the key taken away; we thought you must have locked it, sir."

"I? No, I've not been up here since the morning of the ball, when I had
those old things brought up from the lower room to be out of the way."

"Did you lock the door then, sir?"

"No. Why should I? I am certain I did not. Perhaps one of the men did.
Just go and inquire. And have the key looked for."

"Very good, sir."

"This is rather provoking," Morriston said, as they waited. "I
particularly wanted to show you the view, which should be lovely on a
clear day like this. If we have to wait much longer the light will be
going. Besides, it is quite a quaint old room with a curious recess
formed by the bartizan you may have noticed from outside."

Presently the butler returned accompanied by a footman with several keys.

"We can't find the right key, sir," he announced. "No one seems 
to
have seen it. Alfred has brought a few like it, thinking one might
possibly fit."

None of them, however, would go into the lock, not even the
smallest of them.

"I can't make it out, sir," said the man, kneeling to get more
effectively to work. But no key would enter. The footman at last took a
box of matches from his pocket, struck a light and, holding it to the
key-hole, peered in.

"Why, the key is in the lock, on the other side, sir," he said in
astonishment.

"Then the door can't be locked," Morriston said, pushing it.

The footman rose and pushed too, but the door showed no sign of yielding;
it was fastened sure enough.

"This is strange," Morriston said. "Hi! Is any one in there?" he
shouted; but no response came.

"Are you sure the key is in the door on the inside?" he asked.

"Certain, sir. Will you look for yourself, sir?" the man replied,
striking another match and holding it so that his master could
convince himself.

"No doubt about that," Morriston declared, as he rose from his scrutiny.
"It is the most extraordinary thing I have ever known. Can you account
for it, Stent?"

The butler shook his head. "No, sir. Unless someone is in there now."

Morriston again shouted, but no answer came.

"I presume there is no way out of the room but this door," Piercy asked.

"None," Morriston answered; "except the window, and that is, I should
say, quite eighty feet from the ground; eh, Mr. Gifford?"

"A sheer drop of quite that distance," he answered.

"A prohibitive mode of exit," Piercy observed with a smile.

"Yes," Morriston said. "I can't understand it at all. Besides, who would
be likely to want to play tricks here? We have had no sign of burglars,
and in any case they would hardly have been able to bring a ladder long
enough to reach up to that window. Well, we must have the mystery cleared
up. I think, Stent, you had better send one of the men on a bicycle into
Branchester to fetch a locksmith and have the door opened somehow. Have
it explained to him that it may be a tough job. In the meantime we ma
y as
well go and view the tower from the outside, as we can't get in."

Accordingly the whole party went down into the hall and so out to the
garden, where they strolled round the house, Piercy meanwhile taking
notes of its architectural features. As they came to the tower the rays
of a late winter sun were striking it almost horizontally, lighting it up
in a picturesque glow. Piercy, with his archaeological knowledge, was
able to tell the owner and Gifford a good deal about the ancient
structure of which they had previously been ignorant.

"The sunset would have been worth seeing from that top window,"
Morriston said, evidently perplexed and annoyed over the mystery of the
locked door. "I can't make out what has happened."

"The person who locked the door assuredly did not make his exit by the
window," Kelson remarked with a laugh, as he looked up at the sheer
surface of the upper wall; "unless he was bent on suicide, in which case
we should have found what was left of him at the foot of the tower."

As they went on round the house, Miss Morriston was seen coming up the
drive. Her brother hurried forward to meet her.

"I say, Edith," he exclaimed, "we are in a great fix. Can you explain
how the door of the top room in the tower comes to be locked with the
key inside?"

Miss Morriston looked surprised. "What, Dick?"

"We can't get in," Morriston explained. "We found the door locked and the
key missing, and then when Alfred tried another key, he found the right
one was in the lock but inside the room."

Miss Morriston thought a moment. "My dear Dick, the door can't be
locked."

"It is, I tell you," he returned; "most certainly locked. We have tried
it and found it quite fast."

"Then there must be someone in the room," his sister said.

"That," Morriston replied, "seems the only possible explanation. But I
shouted several times and got no answer."

"Someone playing you a trick," and the girl laughed.

"But who? who?" he returned.

His sister gave a shrug. "Oh, you'll find out soon enough," she replied,
with a smil
e.

"I shall," he replied, as two men appeared making for the servants'
entrance. "Here comes Henry with the locksmith."

Miss Morriston in her stately way looked amused.

"My dear old Dick, you have been making a fuss about it. You will
probably find the door open when you go up."

"And I'll know who has been playing this stupid trick," Morriston said
wrathfully.

"A footman making love to a housemaid turned the key in a panic at being
trapped," Kelson said to his host.

"I dare say," Morriston replied with a laugh of ill-humour. "And he'll
have to pay for his impudence."

That explanation by its feasibility was generally accepted as the simple
solution of the mystery.

"Come along!" Morriston called. "We'll all go up, and see whether the
door is open or not. We shall just be in time to catch the sunset."

He led the way through the hall and the corridor beyond and so up the
winding stairs.

"What, not open yet?" he exclaimed as the last turn showed the workman
busy at the lock. "Well, this is extraordinary."

The locksmith was kneeling and working at the door, while the footman
stood over him holding a candle.

"The key is in the lock, inside, isn't it?" Morriston asked.

"Yes, sir," the man answered. "There is no doubt about that."

"How do you account for it?"

The man looked up from his task and shook his head.

"Can't account for it, sir. Unless so be as there is someone inside."

"Can you open it?"

"Yes, sir. I'll have it turned in a minute."

He took from his bag a long pair of hollow pliers which he inserted in
the lock and then screwed tightly, clutching the end of the key. Then
fitting a transverse rod to the pliers and using it as a lever he
carefully forced the key round, and so shot back the lock.

There was a short pause while the man unscrewed his instrument; then he
stepped back and pushed open the door.

Morriston went in quickly. "There is the key, sure enough," he said,
looking round at the inside of the door. He took a couple of steps
farther into the room, only to utter an exclamation of in
tense surprise
and horror; then turned quickly with an almost scared face.

"Go back!" he cried hoarsely, holding up his hands with an arresting
gesture. "Kelson, Mr. Gifford, come here a moment and shut the door.
Look!" he said in a breathless whisper, pointing to the floor beneath the
window through which the deep orange light of the declining sun was
streaming.

An exclamation came from Kelson as he saw the object which Morriston
indicated, and he turned with a stupefied look to Gifford. "My--!"

Gifford's teeth were set and he fell a step backward as though in
repulsion. On the floor between the window and an old oak table which had
practically hidden it from the doorway, lay the body of a man in evening
clothes, one side of his shirt-front stained a dark colour. Although the
face lay in the shadow of the high window-sill, there was no mistaking
the man's identity.

"Henshaw!" Kelson gasped.

CHAPTER VI

THE MYSTERY OF CLEMENT HENSHAW

It was the missing man, Henshaw, sure enough. The swarthy hue of his face
had in death turned almost to black, but the features, together with the
man's big, muscular figure were unmistakable. For some moments the three
men stood looking at the body in something like bewilderment, scarcely
realizing that so terrible a tragedy had been enacted in that place, amid
those surroundings.

"Suicide?" Kelson was the first to break the silence.

"Must have been," Morriston responded "or how could the door have been
locked from the inside. I will send at once for the police, and we must
have a doctor, although that is obviously useless." He went to the door,
then turned. "Will you stay here or--"

Kelson made an irresolute movement as though wavering between the
implied invitation to quit the room and an inclination not to run
away from the grim business. He glanced at Gifford, who showed no
sign of moving.

"Just as you like," he replied in a hushed voice. "Perhaps we had better
stay here till you come back."

"All right," Morriston assented. "Don't let any one come in, and I
suppose we
 ought not to move anything in the room till the police
have seen it."

He went out, closing the door.

"I can't make this out, Hugh," Kelson said, pulling himself together and
moving to the opposite side of the room.

"No," Gifford responded mechanically.

"He," Kelson continued, "certainly did not give one the idea of a man who
had come down here to make away with himself."

"On the contrary," his friend murmured in the same preoccupied tone.

"What do you think? How can you account for it?" Kelson demanded, as
appealing to the other's greater knowledge of the world.

It seemed to be with an effort that Gifford released himself from the
fascination that held his gaze to the tragedy. "It is an absolute
mystery," he replied, moving to where his friend stood.

"A woman in it?"

For a moment Gifford did not answer. Then he said, "No doubt about it, I
should imagine."

"It's awful," Kelson said, driven, perhaps for the first time in his
life, from his habitually casual way of regarding serious things, and
maybe roused by Gifford's apathy. "We didn't like--the man did not appeal
to us; but to die like this. It's horrible. And I dare say it happened
while the dance was in full swing down there. Why, man, Muriel and I were
in the room below. I proposed to her there. And all the time this was
just above us."

"It is horrible; one doesn't like to think of it," Gifford said
reticently.

"I cannot understand it," Kelson went on, with a sharp gesture of
perplexity. "I can imagine some sort of love affair bringing the poor
fellow down to this place; but that he should come up here and do this
thing, even if it went wrong, is more than I can conceive. Taking the man
as we knew him it is out of all reason."

"Yes," Gifford assented. "But we don't know yet that it is a case
of suicide."

"What else?" Kelson returned. "How otherwise could the door have been
locked. Unless--" He glanced sharply at the deep recess, or inner
chamber, formed by the bartizan, hesitated a moment, and then going
quickly to it, looked in.

"No, nothing 
there," he announced with a breath of relief. "I had for
the moment an idea it might have been a double tragedy," he added with
a shudder.

"So we are forced back to the suicide theory," Gifford remarked. He had
gone to the landing outside the door.

"Yes," Kelson replied as he joined him. "But as to the woman in the case,
who could she possibly have been? I knew most of the girls who were at
the dance, and the idea of a tragedy with any one of them seems
inconceivable."

"One would think so," Gifford responded. "And yet--"

"You think it possible?" Kelson demanded incredulously.

"Possible, if far from probable," the other answered with conviction.
"There are women who can be as secret as the grave, at any rate so far as
appearances to the outer world are concerned. I wonder whom he danced
with. Do you remember?"

"No. I seem to recollect him with a girl in a light green dress, but that
does not take us far."

Footsteps on the stairway announced their host's return.

"The police will be here, directly," he reported, "and, I hope, a doctor.
I have done my best to keep it from the ladies, and I don't think that,
so far, any of them has an exact idea of what made me turn them back.
Just as well the horror should be kept dark as long as possible. It is
such an awful blow to me that I can scarcely realize it yet."

"Miss Morriston does not know?" Kelson asked.

"No. And I only hope it won't give her a dislike to the house when
she does. For I am hoping to have her here a good deal with me, even
if she marries."

A police inspector accompanied by a detective and a constable now
arrived. Morriston took them into the room of death. Gifford grasped
Kelson's arm.

"I don't think there is any use in our staying here," he suggested. "Let
us go down."

The other man nodded, and they began to descend.

"You are not going, Kelson?" Morriston cried, hurrying to the door.

"We thought we could be of no use and might be in the way,"
Gifford replied.

"Oh, I wish you would stay," Morriston urged, going down a few steps to
them. "I
 know it is not pleasant; on the contrary it's a ghastly affair;
but I should like to have you with me till this police business is over.
I won't ask you to stay up here, but if you don't mind waiting downstairs
I should be so grateful. I might want your advice. You'll find the rest
of the party in the drawing-room."

The two could do no less than promise, and, with a word of thanks,
Morriston went back to the officials.

As the two men crossed the hall the drawing-room door opened and Miss
Morriston came out.

"Is my brother coming?" she asked.

"He will be down soon," Gifford answered in as casual a tone as he
could assume.

The girl seemed struck by the gravity of their faces as she glanced from
one to the other. "I hope nothing is wrong," she observed, with just a
shade of apprehension.

There was a momentary pause as each man, hesitating between a direct
falsehood, the truth, and a plausible excuse, rather waited for the
other to speak.

Gifford answered. "No, nothing that you need worry about, Miss Morriston.
Your brother will tell you later on."

But the hesitation seemed to have aroused the girl's suspicions. "Do tell
me now," she said, with just a tremor of anxiety underlying the
characteristic coldness of her tone. "Unless," she added, "it is
something not exactly proper for me to hear."

Kelson quickly availed himself of the loophole she gave him. "You had
better wait and hear it from Dick," he said, suggesting a move towards
the drawing-room. "In the meantime there is nothing you need be
alarmed about."

"It all sounds very mysterious," Miss Morriston returned, her
apprehension scarcely hidden by a forced smile. "I must go and ask
Dick--"

As she turned towards the passage leading to the tower Kelson sprang
forward and intercepted her. "No, no, Miss Morriston," he remonstrated
with a prohibiting gesture, "don't go up there now. Take my word for it
you had better not. Dick will be down directly to explain what is wrong."

For a few moments her eyes rested on him searchingly.

"Very well," she said at l
ength. "If you say I ought not to go, I won't.
But you don't lessen my anxiety to know what has happened."

"There is no particular cause for anxiety on your part," Kelson said
reassuringly.

She had turned and now led the way to the drawing-room. As they entered
they were received by expectant looks.

"Well, is the mystery solved?" young Tredworth inquired.

Kelson gave him a silencing look. "You'll hear all about it in good
time," he replied between lightness and gravity.

Piercy rose to take his leave.

"Oh, you must not go yet," Miss Morriston protested. "They are just
bringing tea."

"But I fear I may be in the way if there is anything--" he urged.

"Oh, no," his hostess insisted. "I don't know of anything wrong. At least
neither Captain Kelson nor Mr. Gifford will admit anything. You must have
tea before your long drive."

The subject of the mystery in the tower was tacitly dropped, perhaps from
a vague feeling that it was best not alluded to, at any rate by the
ladies, and the conversation flowed, with more or less effort, on
ordinary local topics. Tea over, Piercy took his leave.

"You must come again, Mr. Piercy, while you are in this part of the
county," Miss Morriston said graciously, "when you shall have no
episodes of lost keys to hinder your researches. My brother shall
write to you."

Kelson took the departing visitor out into the hall to see him off.

"You'll see it all in the papers to-morrow, I expect," he said in a
confidential tone, "so there is no harm in telling you there has been
a most gruesome discovery in that locked room. A man who was here at
the Hunt Ball, has been found dead; suicide no doubt. The police are
here now."

"Good heavens! A mercy the ladies did not see it."

"Yes; they'll have to know sooner or later. The later the better."

"Yes, indeed. Any idea of the cause of the sad business?"

"None, as yet. A complete mystery."

"Probably a woman in it."

"Not unlikely. Good-bye."

As Kelson turned from the door, Morriston and another man appeared at the
farther end of the hall an
d called to him.

"You know Dr. Page," he said as Kelson joined them.

"A terrible business this, doctor," Kelson observed as they shook hands.

The medico drew in a breath. "And at first sight in the highest degree
mysterious," he said gravely.

"Dr. Page," said Morriston, "has made a cursory examination of the
body. The autopsy will take place elsewhere. The police are making
notes of everything important, and after dark will remove the body
quietly by the tower door. So I hope the ladies will know nothing of
the tragedy just yet."

As they were speaking a footman had opened the hall-door and now
approached with a card on a salver. "Can you see this gentleman,
sir?" he said.

Morriston took the card, and as he glanced at it an expression of pain
crossed his face. He handed it silently to Kelson, who gave it back with
a grave nod. It was the card of "Mr. Gervase Henshaw, II Stone Court,
Temple, E.G."

CHAPTER VII

THE INCREDULITY OF GERVASE HENSHAW

"Show Mr. Henshaw into the library," Morriston said to the footman. "This
is horribly tragic," he added in a low tone to Kelson, "but it has to be
gone through, and perhaps the sooner the better. His brother?"

"Yes; he mentioned him on our way from the station the other evening. At
any rate he will be able to see the situation for himself."

"You will come with me?" Morriston suggested. "You might fetch your
friend, Gifford."

Kelson nodded, opened the drawing-room door and called Gifford out, while
Morriston waited in the hall.

"The brother has turned up," he said as the two men joined him. "No doubt
to make inquiries. What are we to say to him?"

"There is nothing to be said but the bare, inevitable truth," Gifford
answered. "You can't now break it to him by degrees."

Morriston led the way to the library. By the fire stood a keen-featured,
sharp-eyed man of middle height and lithe figure, whose manner and first
movements as the door opened showed alertness and energy of character.
There was a certain likeness to his brother in the features and dark
complexion as
 well as in a suggestion of unpleasant aggressiveness in the
expression of his face, but where the dead man's personality had
suggested determination overlaid with an easy-going, indulgent spirit of
hedonism this man seemed to bristle with a restless mental activity, to
be all brain; one whose pleasures lay manifestly on the intellectual
side. One thing Gifford quickly noted, as he looked at the man with a
painful curiosity, was that the face before him lacked much of the
suggestion of evil which in the brother he had found so repellent. This
man could surely be hard enough on occasion, the strong jaw and a
certain hardness in the eyes told that, but except perhaps for an
uncomfortable excess of sharpness, there was none of his brother's rather
brutally scoffing cast of expression.

Henshaw seemed to regard the two men following Morriston into the room
with a certain apprehensive surprise.

"I hope you will pardon my troubling you like this," he said to
Morriston, speaking in a quick, decided tone, "but I have been rather
anxious as to what has become of my brother, of whom I can get no news.
He came down to the Cumberbatch Hunt Ball, which I understand was held in
this house, and from that evening seems to have mysteriously disappeared.
He had an important business engagement for the next day, Wednesday,
which he failed to keep, and this may mean a considerable loss to him.
Can you throw any light on his movements down here?"

Morriston, dreading to break the news abruptly, had not interrupted his
questions.

"I am sorry to say I can," he now answered in a subdued tone.

"Sorry?" Henshaw caught up the word quickly. "What do you mean? Has he
met with an accident?"

"Worse than that," Morriston answered sympathetically.

Henshaw with a start fell back a step.

"Worse," he repeated. "You don't mean to say--"

"He is dead."

"Dead!" Surprise and shock raised the word almost to a shout. "You--"

"We have," Morriston said quietly, "only discovered the terrible truth
within the last hour or so."

"But dead?" Henshaw pr
otested incredulously. "How--how can he be dead?
How did he die? An accident?"

"I am afraid it looks as though by his own hand," Morriston answered in a
hushed voice.

The expression of incredulity on Henshaw's face manifestly deepened. "By
his own hand?" he echoed. "Suicide? Clement commit suicide? Impossible!
Inconceivable!"

"One would think so indeed," Morriston replied with sympathy. "May I tell
you the facts, so far as we know them?"

"If you please," The words were rapped out almost peremptorily.

Morriston pointed to a chair, but his visitor, in his preoccupation,
seemed to take no notice of the gesture, continuing to stand restlessly,
in an attitude of strained attention.

The other three men had seated themselves. Morriston without further
preface related the story of the locked door in the tower and of the
subsequent discovery when it had been opened. Henshaw heard him to the
end in what seemed a mood of hardly restrained, somewhat resentful
impatience.

"I don't understand it at all," he said when the story was finished.

"Nor do any of us," Morriston returned promptly. "The whole affair is
as mysterious as it is lamentable. Still it appears to be clearly a
case of suicide."

"Suicide!" Henshaw echoed with a certain scornful incredulity. "Why
suicide? In connexion with my brother the idea seems utterly
preposterous."

"The door locked on the inside," Morriston suggested.

"That, I grant you, is at first sight mysterious enough," Henshaw
returned, his keen eyes fixed on Morriston. "But even that does not
reconcile me to the monstrous improbability of my brother, Clement,
taking his own life. I knew him too well to admit that."

"Unfortunately," Morriston replied, sympathetically restraining any
approach to an argumentative tone, "your brother was practically a
stranger to me, and to us all. My friends here, Captain Kelson and Mr.
Gifford, met him casually at the railway station and drove with him to
the _Golden Lion_ in the town, where they all put up."

Henshaw's sharp scrutiny was immediately transf
erred from Morriston to
his companions.

"Can you, gentlemen, throw any light on the matter?" he asked sharply.

"None at all, I am sorry to say," Kelson answered readily. "I may as well
tell you how our very slight acquaintance with him came about."

"If you please," Henshaw responded, in a tone more of command than
request.

Kelson, naturally ignoring his questioner's slightly offensive manner,
thereupon related the circumstances of the encounter at the station-yard
and of the subsequent drive to the town, merely softening the detail of
their preliminary altercation. Henshaw listened alertly intent, it
seemed, to seize upon any point which did not satisfy him.

"That was all you saw of my unfortunate brother?" he demanded at the end.

"We saw him for a few moments in the hall of the hotel just as we were
starting," Kelson answered.

"You drove here together? No?"

"No; your brother took an hotel carriage, and I drove in my own trap."

"With Mr. ----?" he indicated Gifford, who up to this point had
not spoken.

"No," Gifford answered. "I came on later. A suit-case with my evening
things had gone astray--been carried on in the train, and I had to wait
till it was returned."

Henshaw stared at him for a moment sharply as though the statement had
about it something vaguely suspicious, seemed about to put another
question, checked himself, and turned about with a gesture of perplexity.

"I don't understand it at all," he muttered. Then suddenly facing round
again he said sharply to Gifford, "Have you anything to add, sir, to what
your friend has told me?"

"I can say nothing more," Gifford answered.

Henshaw turned away again, and seemed as though but half satisfied.

"The facts," he said in a lawyer-like tone, "don't appear to lead us far.
But when ascertained facts stop short they may be supplemented. Apart
from what is actually known--I ask this as the dead man's only
brother--have either of you gentlemen formed any idea as to how he came
by his death?"

He was looking at Morriston, his cross-examining manner now
 softened by
the human touch.

"It has not occurred to me to look beyond what seems the obvious
explanation of suicide," Morriston answered frankly.

Henshaw turned to Kelson. "And you, sir; have you any idea beyond the
known facts?"

"None," was the answer, "except that he took his own life. The door
locked on--"

Henshaw interrupted him sharply. "Now you are getting back to the facts,
Captain Kelson. I tell you the idea of my brother Clement taking his own
life is to me absolutely inconceivable. Have you any idea, however
far-fetched, as to what really may have happened?"

Kelson shook his head. "None. Except I must say he looked to me the last
man who would do such an act."

"I should think so," Henshaw returned decidedly. Then he addressed
himself to Gifford. "I must ask you, sir, the same question."

"And I can give you no more satisfactory answer," Gifford said.

"As a man with knowledge of the world as I take you to be?" Henshaw
urged keenly.

"No."

"At least you agree with your friend here, that my poor brother did not
strike one as being a man liable to make away with himself?"

"Certainly. But one can never tell. I knew nothing of him or his
affairs."

"But I did," Henshaw retorted vehemently. "And I tell you, gentlemen, the
thing is utterly impossible. But we shall see. The body--is it here?"

"The police have charge of it in the room where he was found. It is to be
removed at nightfall. You will wish to see it?" Morriston answered.

"Yes."

Morriston led the way to the tower, explaining as he went the
arrangements on the night of the ball. Henshaw spoke little, his mood
seemed dissatisfied and resentful, but his sharp eyes seemed to take
everything in. Once he asked, "Did my brother dance much?"

"He was introduced to a partner," Morriston replied. "But after that no
one seems to have noticed him in the ball-room."

"You mean he disappeared quite early in the evening?"

"Yes; so far as we have been able to ascertain," Morriston answered.
"Naturally, before this awful discovery we had been much exerci
sed by
his mysterious disappearance and failure to return to the hotel."

"All the same," Henshaw returned sourly, "one can hardly accept the
inference that he came down here for the express purpose of making away
with himself in your house."

"No, I cannot understand it," Morriston replied, as he turned and began
to ascend the winding stairway.

On the threshold of the topmost floor he paused.

"This is the door we found locked on the inside," he observed quietly.

Henshaw gave a keen look round, and nodded. Morriston pushed open the
door and they entered.

The body of Clement Henshaw still lay on the floor in charge of the
detective and the inspector, the third man having been despatched to
the town to make arrangements for its removal. With a nod to the
officials, Henshaw advanced to the body and bent over it. "Poor
Clement!" he murmured.

After a few moments' scrutiny, Henshaw turned to the officers. "I am the
brother of the deceased," he said, addressing more particularly the
detective. "What do you make of this?"

The question was put in the same sharp, business-like tone which had
characterized his utterances in the library.

"Judging by the door being locked on the inside," the detective answered
sympathetically, "it can only be a case of suicide."

Henshaw frowned. "It will take a good deal to persuade me of that," he
retorted. "Mr. ----"

"Detective-Sergeant Finch."

"Mr. Finch. Did the doctor say suicide?"

"I did not hear him express a definite opinion. Did you, inspector?"

"No, Mr. Finch. I rather presumed the doctor took it for granted."

"Took it for granted!" Henshaw echoed contemptuously. "I'm not going to
take it for granted, I can tell you. Did the doctor examine the body?"

"He made a cursory examination. He is arranging to meet the police
surgeon for an autopsy to-morrow morning."

On the table lay a narrow-bladed chisel, the lower portion of the bright
steel discoloured with the dark stain of blood.

The inspector pointed to it.

"That is the instrument with which the wound must have been m
ade," he
remarked in a subdued tone. "It was found lying beside the body."

Henshaw took it up and ran his eyes over it. "How could he have got
this?" he demanded, looking round with what seemed a distrustful glance.

"I can only suggest," Morriston answered, "that one of my men must have
left it when some work was done here a few days ago."

"That is so apparently, Mr. Morriston," the detective corroborated. "It
has been identified by Haynes, the estate carpenter."

Henshaw put down the chisel and for some moments kept silence, tightening
his thin lips as though in strenuous thought. Then suddenly he demanded,
"Beyond the fact that the door was found locked from within, what reason
have you for your conclusion?"

Mr. Finch shrugged. "We don't see how it could be otherwise, sir," he
replied with quiet conviction. "Clearly the deceased gentleman must have
been alone in the room when he died."

"Might he not have locked the door after the wound was given?" Henshaw
suggested in a tone of cross-examination.

"Dr. Page was of opinion that death, or at any rate unconsciousness, must
have been almost instantaneous," Finch rejoined respectfully.

"Even supposing the autopsy bears out that view I shall not be
satisfied," Henshaw declared.

The inspector took up the argument.

"You see, sir, taking into consideration the position of the room it
would be impossible for any second party who may have been here with the
deceased to leave it undiscovered except by the door. To drop from this
window, which is the only one large enough to admit of an adult body
passing through, would mean pretty certain death. Anyhow the party would
have been so injured that getting clear away would be out of the
question. Will you see for yourself, sir?"

He threw back the window and invited Henshaw to look down. The argument
seemed conclusive.

"Was the window found open or shut?"

"It was found unlatched, sir," Finch answered. "But the servants think
that it was opened that morning and owing to the extra work in the house
that day its fastenin
g in the evening was overlooked."

"Even if a second person had let himself down from the window," the
inspector argued, "the rope would have been here."

Henshaw kept silence, seemingly indifferent to the officials' arguments.
"I can only tell you I am far from satisfied with the suicide theory," he
said at length. "My brother was not that sort of man. He had nerves of
iron; he was in love with life and all it meant to him, and he made it a
rule never to let anything worry him. Let the other fellow worry, was his
motto. Well, we shall see."

He turned towards the door, and as he did so he caught sight of a
cardboard box in which was a collection of various articles, jewellery, a
watch and chain, money, a pocket-handkerchief, a letter, and a dance
programme.

"The contents of deceased's pockets," the inspector observed, answering
Henshaw's glance of curiosity. "We have collected and made a list of
them, and they will in due course be handed to you, or to his heir, on
the coroner's order."

"Is that a letter? May I see it?"

As the official hesitated, Henshaw had snatched the paper, a folded note,
and rapidly ran his eye through its contents. Then he gave a curious
laugh, as he turned over the paper as though seeking an address, and laid
it back in the box.

"A note from my brother to an anonymous lady," he observed quietly.
"Perhaps if we could find out whom it was meant for she would throw some
light on the mystery."

CHAPTER VIII

KELSON'S PERPLEXITY

"What do you think of Mr. Gervase Henshaw?" Kelson said, as, late in the
afternoon, he and Gifford walked towards the town together. Henshaw had
left Wynford Place half an hour previously, having kept to the end his
attitude of resentful incredulity.

"A nailer," Gifford answered shortly.

"Yes," Kelson agreed. "He gives one the idea of a man who will make
trouble if he can. As offensive as his brother was, I should say,
although in a different line. I did not detect one sign of any
consideration for the Morristons in their horribly unpleasant position."

"No," Gi
fford agreed. "I was very sorry for Morriston. He behaved
extremely well, considering the irritatingly antagonistic line the man
chose to take up."

"Brainy man, Henshaw; unpleasantly sharp, eh?"

"Yes," Gifford replied. "Added to his legal training he is by way of
being an expert in criminology."

"I do hope," Kelson remarked thoughtfully, "he is not going to make
himself unpleasant down here. The scandal will be quite enough without
that. Horribly rough luck on the Morristons as new-comers here to have an
affair like this happening in their house. I can't think what brought the
man down here."

"No; he came with a purpose, that's certain."

"A woman in it, no doubt. One can quite sympathize with the brother's
incredulity as to the suicide theory, though hardly with his manner of
showing it. The dead man was not that sort. The idea is simply
staggering."

Gifford made no response, and for a while they walked on in silence.
Presently he asked, "How did you get on to-day--I mean with Colonel
Tredworth?"

"Oh, everything went off beautifully," Kelson answered, his tone
brightening with the change of subject. "The old boy gave me his consent
and his blessing. I've scarcely been able as yet to appreciate my luck,
with this affair at Wynford Place intervening."

"No," Gifford responded mechanically. "It is calculated to drive
everything else out of one's head."

"It is suggested," said Kelson, "that we should be married quite soon.
The Tredworths are going abroad next month and don't propose to hurry
back. So it means that if the wedding does not take place before they
leave it must be postponed till probably the autumn."

"I should think the latter would be the best plan."

Kelson turned quickly to his companion. "To postpone it?" he exclaimed in
a rather hurt tone. "Why on earth should we? We have nothing to wait for,
I mean money or anything of that sort."

"No; but settlements take a long time to draw up."

"Not if the lawyers are told to hurry up with them."

"Then you will have to find a house, and get furniture
. And there is the
trousseau," Gifford urged.

"Oh," Kelson returned with a show of impatience, "all these details can
be got over in two or three weeks if we set ourselves to do it. I don't
believe in waiting once the thing is settled."

"I don't believe in rushing matters," Gifford rejoined. "Least of all
matrimony."

Kelson stopped dead. "Why, Hugh," he said in an expostulatory tone, "what
is the matter with you? You are most confoundedly unsympathetic. Any one
would think you did not want me to marry the girl."

"I certainly don't want you to be in too great a hurry," Gifford
returned calmly.

"But why? Why?"

"I feel it is a mistake."

Kelson laughed. "You are not going to suggest we don't know our
own minds."

"Hardly. But why not wait till the family returns? Of course it is no
business of mine."

"No," Kelson replied with a laugh of annoyance; "and you can't be
expected to enter into my feelings on the subject. But I think you might
be a little less grudging of your sympathy."

"You quite mistake me, Harry," Gifford replied warmly. "It is only in
your own interest that I counsel you not to be in a hurry."

"But why? What, in heaven's name, do you mean?" Kelson demanded, vaguely
apprehensive.

"It is a mistake to rush things, that is all," was the
unsatisfactory answer.

"If I saw the slightest chance of danger I would not hesitate to take
your advice," Kelson said. "But I don't. Nor do you. Since when have you
become so cautious?"

Gifford forced a laugh. "It is coming on with age."

Kelson clapped him on the shoulder. "Don't encourage it, my dear Hugh. It
will spoil all the enjoyment in your life, and in other people's too, if
you force the note. I promise you I won't hurry on the wedding more than
is absolutely necessary."

"Very well," Gifford responded, and the subject dropped.

They had finished dinner, at which the absorbing subject of the tragedy
at Wynford Place was the main topic of their conversation, when the
landlord came in to say that Mr. Gervase Henshaw, who was staying at the
hotel, would
<|endoftext|>
E-text prepared by Lionel G. Sear of Truro, Cornwall, England, and
dedicated to the memory of R. F. Mudie, who won the book used as the
source for this e-text as Form II First Prize for the Summer Term in
1901 at the Seafield House Preparatory School, Broughty Ferry, Scotland

THE TRIPLE ALLIANCE

ITS TRIALS AND TRIUMPHS

By HAROLD AVERY

CONTENTS.

Chapter.

 I. A NEW BOY,

 II. THE PHILISTINES,

 III. DISCOMFITURE OF THE PHILISTINES,

 IV. THE SUPPER CLUB,

 V. CATCHING A TARTAR,

 VI. GUNPOWDER PLOT,

 VII. RONLEIGH COLLEGE,

 VIII. THIRD FORM ORATORY,

 IX. A HOLIDAY ADVENTURE,

 X. A SCREW LOOSE IN THE SIXTH,

 XI. SHADOWS OF COMING EVENTS,

 XII. THE WRAXBY MATCH,

 XIII. THE ELECTIONS,

 XIV. A PASSAGE OF ARMS,

 XV. THE READING-ROOM RIOT,

 XVI. THE CIPHER LETTER,

 XVII. DIGGORY READS THE CIPHER,

XVIII. A SECRET SOCIETY,

 XIX. A CHAPTER OF ACCIDENTS,

 XX. SOWING THE WIND,

 XXI. REAPING THE WHIRLWIND,

 XXII. WHEN SHALL WE THREE MEET AGAIN?

CHAPTER I.

A NEW BOY.

"What's your name?"

"Diggory Trevanock."

The whole class exploded.

"Now, then," said Mr. Blake, looking up from his mark-book with a broad
grin on his own face--"now, then, there's nothing to laugh at.--Look
here," he added, turning to the new boy, "how d'you spell it?"

Instead of being at all annoyed or disconcerted at the mirth of his
class-mates, the youngster seemed rather to enjoy the joke, and
immediately rattled out a semi-humorous reply to the master's
question,--

"D I G, dig; G O R Y, gory--Diggory: T R E, tre; VAN, van; O C K,
ock--Trevanock." Then turning round, he smiled complacently at the
occupants of the desks behind, as much as to say: "There, I've done
all I can to amuse you, and I hope you're satisfied."

This incident, one of the little pleasantries occasionally permitted by
a class master, and which, like a judge's jokes in court, are always
welcomed as a momentary relief from the depressing monotony of the
serious business in hand--this little incident, I say, happened in the
second class of a small preparatory sch
ool, situated on the outskirts of
the market town of Chatford, and intended, according to the wording of a
standing advertisement in the _Denfordshire Chronicle_, "for the sons of
gentlemen."

This establishment, which bore the somewhat suggestive name of "The
Birches," was owned and presided over by Mr. Welsby, who, with an
unmarried daughter, Miss Eleanor, acting as housekeeper, and his
nephew, Mr. Blake, performing the duties of assistant-master, undertook
the preliminary education of about a dozen juveniles whose ages ranged
between ten and fourteen.

On the previous evening, returning from the Christmas holidays, exactly
twelve had mustered round the big table in the dining-room; no new
faces had appeared, and Fred Acton, a big, strong youngster of fourteen
and a half, was undisputed cock of the walk.

The school was divided into two classes. The first, containing the five
elder scholars, went to sit at the feet of Mr. Welsby himself; while the
second remained behind in what was known as the schoolroom, and received
instruction from Mr. Blake.

It was while thus occupied on the first morning of the term that the
lower division were surprised by the sudden appearance of a new boy.
Miss Eleanor brought him into the room, and after a few moments'
whispered conversation with her cousin, smiled round the class and then
withdrew. Every one worshipped Miss Eleanor; but that's neither here
nor there. A moment later Mr. Blake put the question which stands
at the commencement of this chapter.

The new-comer's answer made a favourable impression on the minds of his
companions, and as soon as the morning's work was over, they set about
the task of mutual introduction in a far more friendly manner than was
customary on these occasions. He was a wiry little chap, with bright
eyes, for ever on the twinkle, and black hair pasted down upon his head,
so as not to show the slightest vestige of curl, while the sharp,
mischievous look on his face, and the quick, comical movements of his
body, suggested something between a terrie
r and a monkey.

There was never very much going on in the way of regular sports or
pastimes at The Birches; the smallness of numbers made it difficult to
attempt proper games of cricket or football, and the boys were forced to
content themselves with such substitutes as prisoner's base, cross tag,
etc., or in carrying out the projects of Fred Acton, who was constantly
making suggestions for the employment of their time, and compelling
everybody to conform to his wishes.

Mr. Welsby had been a widower for many years; he was a grave, scholarly
man, who spent most of his spare time in his own library. Mr. Blake was
supposed to take charge out of school hours; he was, as every one said,
"a jolly fellow," and the fact that his popularity extended far and wide
among a large circle of friends and acquaintances, caused him to have a
good many irons in the fire of one sort and another. During their hours
of leisure, therefore, the Birchites were left pretty much to their own
devices, or more often to those of Master Fred Acton, who liked, as has
already been stated, to assume the office of bellwether to the little
flock.

At the time when our story commences the ground was covered with snow;
but Acton was equal to the occasion, and as soon as dinner was over,
ordered all hands to come outside and make a slide.

The garden was on a steep <DW72>, along the bottom of which ran the brick
wall bounding one side of the playground; a straight, steep path lay
between this and the house, and the youthful dux, with his usual
disregard of life and limb, insisted on choosing this as the scene of
operations.

"What!" he cried, in answer to a feeble protest on the part of Mugford,
"make it on level ground? Of course not, when we've got this jolly hill
to go down; not if I know it. We'll open the door at the bottom, and go
right on into the playground."

"But how if any one goes a bit crooked, and runs up against the bricks?"

"Well, they'll get pretty well smashed, or he will. You must go
straight; that's half the fun of the thing--it
'll make it all the more
exciting. Come on and begin to tread down the snow."

Without daring to show any outward signs of reluctance, but with
feelings very much akin to those of men digging their own graves before
being shot, the company set about putting this fearful project into
execution. In about half an hour the slide was in good working order,
and then the fun began.

Mugford, and one or two others whose prudence exceeded their valour,
made a point of sitting down before they had gone many yards, preferring
to take the fall in a milder form than it would have assumed at a later
period in the journey. To the bolder spirits, however, every trip was
like leading a forlorn hope, none expecting to return from the
enterprise unscathed. The pace was terrific: on nearing the playground
wall, all the events of a lifetime might have flashed across the memory
as at the last gasp of a drowning man; and if fortunate enough to whiz
through the doorway, and pull up "all standing" on the level stretch
beyond, it was to draw a deep breath, and regard the successful
performance of the feat as an escape from catastrophe which was nothing
short of miraculous. The unevenness of the ground made it almost
impossible to steer a straight course. A boy might be half-way down the
path, when suddenly he felt himself beginning to turn round; an agonized
look spread over his face; he made one frantic attempt to keep, as it
were, "head to the sea;" there was an awful moment when house, garden,
sky, and playground wall spun round and round; and then the little group
of onlookers, their hearts hardened by their own sufferings, burst into
a roar of laughter; while Acton slapped his leg, crying, "He's over!
What a stunning lark! Who's next?"

At the end of an hour and a half most of the company were temporarily
disabled, and even their chief had not escaped scot free.

"Now then for a regular spanker!" he cried, rushing at the slide.
A "spanker" it certainly was: six yards from the commencement his legs
flew from under him, he soared into 
the air like a bird, and did not
touch the ground again until he sat down heavily within twenty paces of
the bottom of the <DW72>.

One might have supposed that this catastrophe would have somewhat damped
the sufferer's ardour; but instead of that he only seemed fired with a
fresh desire to break his neck.

He hobbled up the hill, and pausing for a moment at the top to take
breath, suddenly exclaimed, "Look here, I'm going down it on skates."

Every one stood aghast at this rash determination; but Acton hurried off
into the house, and soon returned with the skates. He sat down on a
bank, and was proceeding to put them on, when he discovered that,
by some oversight, he had brought out the wrong pair. "Bother it! these
aren't mine, they're too short; whose are they?"

"I think they're mine," faltered Mugford.

"Well, put 'em on."

"But I don't want to."

"But I say you must!"

"Oh! please, Acton, I really can't, I--"

"Shut up! Look here, some one's got to go down that slide on skates, so
just put 'em on."

It was at this moment that Diggory Trevanock stepped forward, and
remarked in a casual manner that if Mugford didn't wish to do it, but
would lend him the skates, he himself would go down the slide.

His companions stared at him in astonishment, coupled with which was a
feeling of regret: he was a nice little chap, and they had already begun
to like him, and did not wish to see him dashed to pieces against the
playground wall before their very eyes. Acton, however, had decreed
that "some one had got to go down that slide on skates," and it seemed
only meet and right that if a victim had to be sacrificed it should be a
new boy rather than an old stager.

"Bravo!" cried the dux; "here's one chap at least who's no funk.
Put 'em on sharp; the bell 'll ring in a minute."

Several willing hands were stretched out to assist in arming Diggory for
the enterprise, and in a few moments he was assisted to the top of the
slide.

"All right," he said; "let go!"

The spectators held their breath, hardly daring to watch what wo
uld
happen. But fortune favours the brave. The adventurous juvenile rushed
down the path, shot like an arrow through the doorway, and the next
instant was seen ploughing up the snow in the playground, and eventually
disappearing head first into the middle of a big drift.

His companions all rushed down in a body to haul him out of the snow.
Acton smacked him on the back, and called him a trump; while Jack Vance
presented him on the spot with a mince-pie, which had been slightly
damaged in one of the donor's many tumbles, but was, as he remarked,
"just as good as new for eating."

From that moment until the day he left there was never a more popular
boy at The Birches than Diggory Trevanock.

"I say," remarked Mugford, as they met a short time later in the
cloak-room, "that was awfully good of you to go down the slide instead
of me; what ever made you do it?"

"Well," answered the other calmly, "I thought it would save me a lot of
bother if I showed you fellows at once that I wasn't a muff. I don't
mind telling you I was in rather a funk when it came to the start; but
I'd said I'd do it, and of course I couldn't draw back."

The numerous stirring events which happened at The Birches during the
next three terms, and which it will be my pleasing duty to chronicle in
subsequent chapters, gave the boys plenty of opportunity of testing the
character of their new companion, or, in plainer English, of finding out
the stuff he was made of; and whatever his other faults may have been,
this at least is certain, that no one ever found occasion to charge
Diggory Trevanock with being either a muff or a coward.

One might have thought that the slide episode would have afforded
excitement enough for a new boy's first day at school; yet before it
closed he was destined to be mixed up in an adventure of a still
more thrilling character.

The Birches was an old house, and though its outward appearance was
modern enough, the interior impressed even youthful minds with a feeling
of reverence for its age. The heavy timbers, the queer 
shape of some of
the bedrooms and attics, the narrow, crooked passages, and the little
unexpected flights of stairs, were all things belonging to a bygone age,
of which the pupils were secretly proud, and which caused them to
remember the place, and think of it at the time, as being in some way
different from an ordinary school.

"I say, Diggy," exclaimed Jack Vance, addressing the new boy by the
friendly abbreviation, which seemed by mutual consent to have been
bestowed upon him in recognition of his daring exploit--"I say, Diggy,
you're in my bedroom: there's you, and me, and Mugford. Mug's an awful
chump, but he's a good-natured old duffer, and you and I'll do the
fighting."

"What do you mean?"

"Why, sometimes when Blake is out spending the evening, and old Welsby
is shut up in his library, the different rooms make raids on one
another. It began the term before last. Blake had been teaching us all
about how the Crusaders used to go out every now and then and make war
in Palestine, and so the fellows on the west side of the house called
themselves the Crusaders, and we were Infidels, and they'd come over and
rag us, and we should drive them back. Miss Eleanor came up one night,
and caught us in the middle of a battle. O Diggy, she is a trump!
Blake asked her next day before us all which boys had been out on the
landing, because he meant to punish them; and she laughed, and said:
'I'm sure I can't tell you. Why, when I saw they were all in their
night-shirts, I shut my eyes at once!' Of course it was all an excuse
for not giving us away. She doesn't mind seeing chaps in their
night-shirts when they're ill, we all know that; and once or twice
when for some reason or other she told us on the quiet that there
mustn't be any disturbance that evening, no one ever went crusading--
Acton would have licked them if they had. Acton's going to propose to
Miss Eleanor some day, he told us so, and--"

"But what about the bedrooms?" interrupted Diggory; "have you given up
having crusades?"

"Yes, but we have other things in
stead. We call our rooms by different
names, and it's all against all; one lot come and make a raid on you,
and then you go and pay them out. This term Kennedy and Jacobs sleep in
the room above ours, and next to the big attic. They're always reading
sea stories, and they call their room the 'Main-top,' because it's so
high up. Then at the end of the passage are Acton, Shaw, and Morris,
and they're the 'House of Lords;' and next to them is the 'Dogs' Home,'
where all the other fellows are put."

A few hours later Diggory and his two room-mates were standing at the
foot of their beds and discussing the formation of a few simple rules
for conducting a race in undressing, the last man to put the candle out.

"You needn't bother to race," said Mugford; "I'll do it--I'm sure to be
the last."

"No, you aren't," answered Vance. "We'll give you coat and waistcoat
start; it'll be good fun--"

At this moment the door was suddenly flung open, two half-dressed
figures sprang into the room, and discharged a couple of snowballs
point-blank at its occupants. One of the missiles struck Diggory on the
shoulder, and the other struck Mugford fair and square on the side of
the head, the fragments flying all over the floor. There was a subdued
yell of triumph, the door was slammed to with a bang, and the muffled
sound of stockinged feet thudding up the neighbouring staircase showed
that the enemy were in full retreat.

"It's those confounded Main-top men!" cried Jack Vance; "I will pay them
out. I wonder where the fellows got the snow from?"

"Oh, I expect they opened the window and took it off the ledge,"
answered Diggory. "Look here--let's sweep it up into this piece of
paper before it melts."

This having been done, the three friends hastily threw off their clothes
and scrambled into bed, forgetting all about the proposed race in their
eagerness to form some plan for an immediate retaliation on the
occupants of the "Main-top."

"I wonder if they'll hear anything of the ghost again this term?" said
Mugford,

"What ghost?" asked Dig
gory.

"Oh, it's nothing really," answered Vance; "only somebody said once
that the house is haunted, and Kennedy and Jacobs say the ghost must be
in the big attic next their room. They hear such queer noises sometimes
that they both go under the bed-clothes."

"Do they always do that?"

"Yes, so they say, whenever there is a row."

"Well, then," said Diggory, "I'll tell you what we'll do: we'll go very
quietly up into that attic, and groan and knock on the wall until you
think they've both got their heads well under the clothes, and then
we'll rush in and bag their pillows, or drag them out of bed, or
something of that sort. You aren't afraid to go into the attic, are
you?" he continued, seeing that the others hesitated. "Why, of course
there are no such things as ghosts. Or, look here, I'll go in, and
you can wait outside."

"N--no, I don't mind," answered Vance; "and it'll be an awful lark
catching them with their heads under the clothes."

"All right, then, let's do it; though I suppose we'd better wait till
every one's in bed."

The last suggestion was agreed upon, and the three friends lay talking
in an undertone until the sound of footsteps and the gleam of a candle
above the door announced the fact that Mr. Blake was retiring to rest.

"He's always last," said Vance; "we must give him time to undress, and
then we'll start."

A quarter of an hour later the three boys, in semi-undress, were
creeping in single file up the narrow staircase.

"Be careful," whispered Vance; "there are several loose boards, and they
crack like anything."

The small landing was reached in safety, and the moon, shining faintly
through a little skylight formed of a single pane of glass, enabled them
to distinguish the outline of two doors.

Now it was a very different matter, when lying warm and snug in bed, to
talk about acting the ghost, from what it was, when standing shivering
in the cold and darkness, to put the project into execution. During the
period of waiting the conversation had turned on haunted houses, and no
one seeme
d particularly anxious to claim as it were the post of honour,
and be the first to enter the big attic.

"Go on!" whispered Mugford, nudging Vance.

"Go on!" repeated the latter, giving Diggory's arm a gentle push.

The new boy had certainly undertaken to play the part of the ghost, and
there was no excuse for his backing out of it at the last moment.

"All right," he muttered, "I'll go."

Just then a terrible thing happened. Diggory clutched the door-knob as
though it were the handle of a galvanic battery, while Mugford and Vance
seized each other by the arm and literally gasped for breath.

The stillness had been broken by a slight sound, as of something falling
inside the attic, and this was followed a moment later by a shrill,
unearthly scream.

For five seconds the three companions stood petrified with horror, not
daring to move; then followed another scream, if anything more horrible
than the last, and accompanied this time by the clanking rattle of a
chain being dragged across the floor.

That was enough. Talk about a _sauve qui peut_! the wonder is that any
one survived the stampede which followed. The youngsters turned and
flew down the stairs at break-neck speed, and hardly had they started
when the door of the "Main-top" was flung open, and its two occupants
rushed down after them. As though to ensure the retreat being nothing
less than a regular rout, Mugford, who was leading, missed his footing
on the last step, causing every one to fall over him in turn, until all
five boys were sprawling together in a mixed heap upon the floor.

Freeing themselves with some little difficulty from the general
entanglement, they rose to their feet, and after surveying each other
for a moment in silence, gave vent to a simultaneous ejaculation of
"_The ghost_!"

"What were you fellows doing up there?" asked Kennedy.

"Why, we came up to have a joke with you," answered Vance; "but just
when we got up to the landing, it--it made that noise!"

There was the sound of the key turning in the lock of Mr. Blake's door.

"_Cav
e_!" whispered Mugford.

"Tell him about it," added Vance; and giving Diggory a push, they all
three darted into their room just as the master emerged from his,
arrayed in dressing-gown and slippers.

"Now, then," exclaimed the latter, holding his candle above his head,
and peering down the passage, "what's the meaning of this disturbance?
I thought the whole house was falling down.--Come here, you two, and
explain yourselves!"

"Please, sir," answered Kennedy and Jacobs in one breath, "it's the
ghost!"

"The ghost! What ghost? What d'you mean?"

The two "Main-top" men began a hasty account of the cause of their
sudden fright, taking care, however, to make no mention of the three
hostile visitors who had shared in the surprise.

Mr. Blake listened to their story in silence, then all at once he burst
out laughing, and without a word turned on his heel and went quickly
upstairs. He entered the attic, and in about half a minute they heard
him coming back.

"Ha, ha! I've got your ghost; I've been trying to lay him for some time
past."

The jingle of a chain was distinctly audible; Mr. Blake was evidently
bringing the spectre down in his arms! Diggory and Vance could no
longer restrain their curiosity; they hopped out of bed and glanced
round the corner of the door. The master held in his hand a rusty old
gin, the iron jaws of which were tightly closed upon the body of an
enormous rat.

"There's a monster for you!" he said; "I think it's the biggest I ever
saw. He'd carried the trap, chain and all, right across the room, but
that finished him; he was as dead as a stone when I picked him up.
Now get back to bed; I should think you're both nearly frozen."

Diggory and Jack Vance followed the advice given to Kennedy and Jacobs,
and did so rather sheepishly. They felt they had been making tools of
themselves; yet it would never have done to own to such a thing.

"What a lark!" said the new boy, after a few moments' silence.

"Wasn't it!" returned Jack Vance; "it's the best joke I've had for a
long time. But we didn't pay 
those fellows out for throwing those
snowballs; we must do it some other night. And now we three must swear
to be friends, and stand by each other against all the world, and
whatever happens. What shall we call our room?"

"I know," answered Diggory: "we'll call it 'The Triple Alliance!'"

CHAPTER II.

THE PHILISTINES.

The Triple Alliance, the formation of which has just been described, was
destined to be no mere form of speech or empty display of friendship.
The members had solemnly sworn to stand by one another whatever
happened, and the manner in which they carried out their resolve, and
the important consequences which resulted from their concerted actions,
will be made known to the reader as our story progresses.

Poor Mugford certainly seemed likely to be a heavy drag on the
association; he was constantly tumbling into trouble, and needing to be
pulled out again by those who had promised to be his friends.

An instance of this occurred on the day following Diggory's arrival at
The Birches. He and Vance had gone down after morning school into what
was called the playroom, to partake of two more of the latter's
mince-pies, and on their return to the schoolroom found a crowd
assembled round Acton, who, seated on the top of a small cupboard which
always served as a judicial bench, was hearing a case in which Mugford
was the defendant, while Jacobs and another boy named Cross appeared as
plaintiffs.

The charge was that the former was indebted to the latter for the sum of
half a crown, which he had borrowed towards the end of the previous
term, in separate amounts of one shilling and eighteen pence, promising
to repay them, with interest, immediately after the holidays. The money
had been expended in the purchase of a disreputable old canary bird, for
which Noaks, the manservant, had agreed to find board and lodging during
the Christmas vacation. Now, when the creditors reminded Mugford of his
obligations, they found him totally unable to meet their demands for
payment.

"Now, look here," said Acton, addressing
 the defendant with great
severity, "no humbug--how much money did you bring back with you?"

"Well, I had to pay my brother before I came away for my share in a
telescope we bought last summer, and then--"

"Bother your brother and the telescope! Why can't you answer my
question? How much money did you bring back with you?"

"Only five bob."

"Then why in the name of Fortune don't you pay up?"

"Because I had to pay all that to Noaks for bird-seed."

"D'you mean to say that that bird ate five shillings' worth of seed in
four weeks?"

"Well, so Noaks says; he told me he'd kept scores of birds in his time,
but he'd 'never seen one so hearty at its grub before.' Those were the
very words he used, and he said it was eating nearly all the day, and
that's one reason why it looks such a dowdy colour, and never sings."

"Well, all I can say is, if you believe all Noaks tells you, you're a
fool. But that's no reason why these two chaps should be done out of
their money; so now, how are you going to pay them?"

"If they only wait till pocket-money's given out--" began Mugford.

"Oh no, we shan't!" interrupted Cross. "He only gets sixpence a week,
and he's always breaking windows and other things, and having it
stopped."

There seemed only one way out of the difficulty, and that was to put as
it were an execution into Mugford's desk, and realize a certain amount
of his private property.

"Look here," said Acton, "he must sell something.--Now, then," he added,
turning to the defendant, "just shell out something and bring it here at
once, and we'll have an auction."

The boy walked off to his desk, and after rummaging about in it for some
little time, returned with a miscellaneous collection of small articles
in his arms, which he proceeded to hand up one by one for the judge's
inspection.

"What's this?"

"Oh, its a book that was given me on my birthday, called 'Lofty Thoughts
for Little Thinkers.'"

"Lofty grandmother!" said Acton impatiently.

"What else have you got ?"

"Well, here's a wire puzzle, only I think a bit of 
it's lost, and the
clasp of a cricket belt, and old Dick Rodman's chessboard and some of
the men, and some stuff for chilblains, and--"

"Oh, dry up!" interrupted Acton; "what bosh! Who d'you expect would buy
any of that rubbish? Look here, we'll give you till after dinner, and
unless you find something sensible by then, we shall come and hunt for
ourselves."

"That's just like Mug," said Jack Vance to Diggory, as the group of boys
slowly dispersed; "he's always doing something stupid. But I suppose as
we made that alliance, we ought to try to help the beggar somehow."

They followed their unfortunate comrade to his desk, which when opened
displayed a perfect chaos of ragged books, loose sheets of paper, broken
pen-holders, pieces of string, battered cardboard boxes, and other
rubbish.

"Look here, Mug, what have you got to sell? you'll have to fork out
something."

"I don't know," returned the other mournfully, stirring up the contents
of the desk as though he were making a Christmas pudding. "I've got
nothing, except--well, there's this book of Poe's, 'Tales of Adventure,
Mystery, and Imagination,' and my clasp-knife; and perhaps some one
would buy these fret-saw patterns or this dog-chain."

He turned out two or three more small articles and laid them on the
form.

"Are there any of these things you particularly wish to keep?" asked
Diggory; "because, if so, Vance and I'll bid for them, and then you can
buy them back from us again when you've got some more money."

"That's awfully kind of you," answered Mugford, brightening up. "I'll
tell you what I should like to keep, and that's my clasp-knife and the
book; they're such jolly stories. 'The Pit and the Pendulum' always
gives me bad dreams, and 'The Premature Burial' makes you feel certain
you'll be buried alive."

"All right; and did you bring a cake back with you?"

"Yes."

"Well, then, sell that first, and you can share our grub."

The auction was held directly after dinner. The cake fetched a
shilling, and Diggory and Vance bid ninepence each for the book 
and
pocket-knife; so Mugford came out of his difficulty without suffering
any further loss than what was afterwards made good again by the
generosity of his two comrades. They, for their part, made no fuss over
this little act of kindness, but handed the book and clasp-knife over
to Mugford without waiting for the money, and little thinking what an
important part these trifling possessions would play in the subsequent
history of the Triple Alliance.

The sale had not long been concluded, and the little community were
preparing to obey Acton's order to "Come outside," when the latter
rushed into the room finning with rage.

"I say," he exclaimed, "what do you think that beast of a Noaks has
done? Why, he's gone and put ashes all over our slide!"

In their heart of hearts every one felt decidedly relieved at this
announcement; still it was necessary, at all events, to simulate some of
their leader's wrath, and accordingly there was a general outcry against
the offender.

"Oh, the cad!"--"What an awful shame!"--"Let's tell Blake!" etc., etc.

"Who is Noaks?" asked Diggory. "Is he that sour-looking man who brings
the boots in every morning?"

"Yes, that's so," answered Vance. "He hates us all--partly, I believe,
because his son's a Philistine. I wonder old Welsby doesn't get another
man."

"His son's a _what?_" asked Diggory; but at that moment Acton came
marching round the room ordering every one out into the playground, and
Jack Vance hurried off to get his cap and muffler without replying to
the question.

Sliding was out of the question, and the "House of Lords" having amused
themselves for a time by capturing small boys and throwing them into the
snow-drift, some one remarked that it would be good fun to build a snow
man; which proposition was received with acclamation, and all hands were
soon hard at work rolling the big balls which were to form the base of
the statue. As the work progressed the interest in it increased, the
more so when Diggory suggested that the figure should be supposed to
represent the obno
xious Noaks, and that the company could then relieve
their feelings by pelting his effigy as soon as it was completed.
Every one was pleased with the project, and even Acton, who as a rule
would never follow up any plan which was not of his own making, took
special pains to cause the snow man to bear some likeness to the
original. He had just, by way of a finishing touch, expended nearly
half a penny bottle of red ink in a somewhat exaggerated reproduction of
the fiery hue of Noaks's nose, when the bell rang for afternoon school,
and the bombardment had to be postponed until the following day.

It was no small trial of patience being thus obliged to wait nearly
twenty-four hours before wreaking their vengeance on the effigy; still
there was no help for it. The boys bottled down their feelings, and
when at last the classes were dismissed, and the dux cried, "Come on,
you fellows!" every one obeyed the summons willingly enough. There had
been a slight thaw in the night, and the statue stood in need of some
trifling repairs. Acton suggested, therefore, that the half-hour
before dinner should be devoted to putting things to rights, and to
making some small additions in the shape of pebbles for waistcoat
buttons, and other trifling adornments.

Mr. Welsby kept the boys at the table for nearly a quarter of an hour
after the meal was finished, talking over his plans for the coming term,
and when at last he finished there was a regular stampede for the
playground. Acton was leading the rush; he dashed through the garden
doorway, and then stopped dead with an exclamation of dismay. All those
who followed, as they arrived on the spot, did the same. Every vestige
of the snow man, which had been left barely an hour ago standing such a
work of art, had disappeared. Certainly a portion of the pedestal still
remained, looking like the stump of an old, decayed tooth; but the
figure itself had been thrown down, trodden flat, and literally stamped
out of existence!

The little crowd stood for a moment speechless, gazing with woebe
gone
expressions on their faces at the wreck of their hopes and handiwork;
then the silence was broken by a subdued chuckle coming from the other
side of the wall on their left, and every one, with a start and a sudden
clinching of fists, cried simultaneously: "The Philistines!"

The words had hardly been uttered when above the brickwork appeared the
head and shoulders of a boy a size or so bigger than Acton;
a dirty-looking brown bowler hat was stuck on the very back of his head,
and rammed down until the brim rested on the top of his ears; and it
will be quite sufficient to remark that his face was in exact keeping
with the manner in which he wore his hat. Once more everybody gave vent
to their feelings by another involuntary ejaculation--"Young Noaks!"

The stranger laughed, pulled a face which, as far as ugliness went, was
hardly an improvement on the one Nature had already bestowed upon him,
and then pointed mockingly at the remains of the masterpiece.

His triumph, however, was short-lived. Jack Vance, as he left the
house, had caught up a double handful of snow, which he had been
pressing into a hard ball as he ran down the path, determining in his
own, mind to be the first to open fire on the snow man. Without a
moment's hesitation he flung the missile at the intruder's head, and, to
the intense delight of his companions, it struck the latter fairly on
the mouth, causing him to lose his precarious foothold on the wall and
fall back into the road.

It needed no further warning to inform the Birchites that the
Philistines were upon them, and every one set to work to lay in a stock
of snowballs as fast as hands could make them. "Look out!" cried
Kennedy. Young Noaks's face rose once more above the top of the wall,
and the next moment a big stone, the size of hen's egg, whizzed past
Diggory's head, and struck the garden door with a sounding bang.

"Oh, the cad!" cried Acton; "let's go for him."

The whole garrison combined in making a vigorous sortie into the road;
but it was only to find the enemy in full re
treat, and a few dropping
shots at long range ended the skirmish.

"I say, Vance," exclaimed Diggory, "who are they? Who are these
fellows?"

Now, as the aforesaid Philistines play rather an Important part in the
opening chapters of our story, I propose to answer the question myself,
in such a way that the reader may be enabled to take a more intelligent
interest in the chain of events which commenced with the destruction of
the snow man; and in order that this may be done in a satisfactory
manner, I will in a few words map out the ground on which this memorable
campaign was afterwards conducted.

Take the well-known drawing of two right angles In Euclid's definition,
and imagine the horizontal line to be the main road to Chatford, while
the perpendicular one standing on it is a by-way called Locker's lane.
In the right angle stood The Birches; the house itself faced the
Chatford road, while behind it, in regular succession, came first the
sloping garden, then the walled-in playground, and then the small field
in which were attempted such games of cricket and football as the
limited number of pupils would permit. There were three doors in the
playground--one the entrance from the garden, another opening into the
lane, and a third into the field, the two latter being usually kept
locked.

Locker's Lane was a short cut to Chatford, yet Rule 21 in The Birches
Statute-Book ordained that no boy should either go or return by this
route when visiting the town; the whole road was practically put out of
bounds, and the reason for this regulation was as follows:

At the corner of the playing field the lane took a sharp turn, and about
a quarter of a mile beyond this stood a large red-brick house, shut in
on three sides by a high wall, whereon, close to the heavy double doors
which formed the entrance, appeared a board bearing in big letters the
legend--

 HORACE HOUSE,
 Middle-Class School for Boys.
 A. PHILLIPS, B.A., Head-master.

The pupils of Mr. Phillips had been formerly called by Mr. Welsby's boys
the Phillipians, w
hich title had in time given place to the present
nickname of the Philistines.

I have no doubt that the average boy turned out by Horace House was as
good a fellow, taking him all round, as the average boy produced by The
Birches; and that, if they had been thrown together in one school, they
would, for the most part, have made very good friends and comrades.
However, in fairness both to them and to their rivals, it must be said
that at the period of our story Mr. Phillips seemed for some time past
to have been unusually unfortunate in his elder boys: they were
undoubtedly "cads," and the character of the whole establishment, as far
as the scholars were concerned, naturally yielded to the influence of
its leaders.

It had been customary every term for the Birchites to play a match
against them either at cricket or football; but their conduct during a
visit paid to the ground of the latter, back in the previous summer, had
been so very ungentlemanly and unsportsmanlike that, when the next
challenge arrived for an encounter at football, Mr. Welsby wrote back a
polite note expressing regret that he did not see his way clear to
permit a continuation of the matches. This was the signal for an
outbreak of open hostilities between the two schools: the Philistines
charged the Birchites in the open street with being afraid to meet them
in the field. These base insinuations led to frequent exchanges of
taunts and uncomplimentary remarks; and, last of all, matters were
brought to a climax by a stand-up fight between Tom Mason, Acton's
predecessor as dux, and young Noaks. The encounter took place just
outside the stronghold of the enemy, the Birchite so far getting the
best of it that at the end of a five minutes' engagement he proclaimed
his victory by dragging his adversary along by the collar and bumping
his head a number of times against the very gates of Horace House.
Unfortunately a rumour of what had happened got to the ears of
Mr. Welsby. Mason was severely reprimanded, and his companions were
forbidden, under pain 
of heavy punishment, to walk in Locker's Lane
further than the corner of their own playing field.

"But who is young Noaks?" asked Diggory, as Jack Vance finished a hasty
account of this warfare with the Philistines.

"Why, that's just the funny part of it," returned the other. "This Sam
Noaks is the son of our Noaks, but he's got an uncle, called Simpson,
who lives at Todderton, where I come from. This man Simpson made a lot
of money out in Australia, and when he came back to England he adopted
young Noaks, and sends him here to Phillips's school."

By this time the home forces had all struggled back into the playground.
In one corner stood a wooden shed containing a carpenter's bench, a
chest for bats and stumps, and various other things belonging to
different boys. Acton, as head of the school, kept the key, and having
unfastened the door, summoned his followers inside to hold an impromptu
council of war and discuss the situation. There was a grave expression
on each face, for every one felt that things were beginning to look
serious. Mason, the only one of their number who had been physically
equal to the leaders of their opponents, was no longer among them, and
the enemy, evidently aware of their helpless condition, had dared for
the first time to actually come and beard them in their own den.

"What I want to know first is this," began Acton. "You can see by the
footmarks that they came in through that door; of course it's always
kept locked, and here's the key hanging up inside the shed. Now who
opened it for them, and how was it done?"

"Perhaps it wasn't fastened," suggested Morris.

"Yes, it was," answered Kennedy excitedly. "I noticed that this
morning, when we were picking up stones for the snow man's buttons."

"Then I tell you what it is," continued Acton solemnly: "some one here's
playing us false, and my belief is it's old Noaks. D'you remember last
term when Mason and Jack Vance and I made a plot for going down and
throwing crackers into their yard? Well, they must have heard of it
from some one;
 for they were all lying in wait for us behind the wall,
and as soon as we got near to it they threw cans of water over us and
pelted us with stones."

There was a murmur of suppressed wrath at the memory of the fate of this
gallant expedition.

"Yes," added Shaw, "and I believe some one told them about this snow
man."

"Well, one thing's certain," said Acton--"we must serve 'em out somehow
for knocking it down. They evidently think now Mason's gone they can do
what they like, and that we shall be afraid of them. Now what can we
do?"

There was a silence; every one felt that a serious crisis had arrived in
the history of the Birchites, and that unless some immediate steps were
taken to avenge this insult they would no longer be free men, but live
in constant terror of the Philistines;--every one, I say, felt that some
bold action must be taken, yet nobody had a suggestion to make.

"Well, look here," said Acton, "something's got to be done. We must all
think it over, and we'll have another meeting in a week's time; then if
any one's made a plan, we'll talk it over and decide what's to be done."

"Jack," said Diggory two evenings later, "you know what Acton said about
the Philistines; well, I've got part of a plan in my head, but I shan't
tell you what it is till Wednesday."

CHAPTER III.

DISCOMFITURE OF THE PHILISTINES.

On Wednesday afternoon, as soon as dinner was over, Acton summoned his
followers to attend the council of war which was to decide what
reprisals should be taken on the Philistines for the destruction of the
snow man. Every one felt the importance of a counter-attack, for unless
something of the kind were attempted, as Acton remarked in his opening
speech, "they'll think we're funky of them, and they'll simply come down
here as often as they like, and worry us to death."

"Couldn't we tell Mr. Welsby?" suggested Butler, a timid small boy
belonging to the "Dogs' Home."

"Tell Mr. Welsby!" cried half a dozen voices in withering tones;
"of course not!"

It was well known by both parties that wheneve
r the real state of
affairs became known to their respective head-masters, the war would
come to an abrupt termination; and the great reason why each side
forbore to make any open complaint against the other was undoubtedly
because every one secretly enjoyed the excitement of the campaign, and
felt that a peace would make life rather dull and uninteresting.

"The thing that licks us," said Acton, "is what I was speaking about
last week: somehow or other, they always seem to know just what we're up
to, and it's no use our doing anything, because they're always prepared.
Some one's acting the spy. I can't think it's any of you fellows, but I
believe it's old Noaks. You see his son's there, and for some reason or
other he seems to hate every one here like poison. Now, what are we to
do?"

There was a silence, broken at length by Diggory Trevanock.

"I don't know what you think," he began, "but it seems to me it's no use
making any plans until we find out who tells 'em to the Philistines.
I should say that Noaks is the fellow who does it, but we ought to
make certain."

"Yes, but how are we to do it?" asked Acton, laughing; "that's just what
I want to know."

"Well, I've got a bit of a plan," returned the other, "only I should
like to tell it you in private."

"All right," answered the dux; "come on outside. Now, then, what is
it?"

"Why," said Diggory, "it's this (I didn't want the other chaps to hear,
because then it'll prove who's the spy). You say the last time you went
down to throw some crackers over the wall they were all lying in wait
for you. Well, let you and me go into the boot-room when Noaks is at
work there, and pretend to make a plan as though we were going to do it
again to-morrow night; then two of us might go down and see if they're
prepared. If so, it must have been Noaks who told them, because no one
else knows about it. I'll go for one, and Jack Vance'll go for another.
I'll tell him to keep it dark, and you can let us in and out of the
door."

"Oh--ah!" said Acton, "that isn't a bad idea; at all
 events we'll try
it."

The project was put into immediate execution. That same afternoon, just
before tea, Acton and Diggory discussed the bogus plan in Noaks's
hearing, while Jack Vance, having been admitted into their confidence
and sworn to secrecy, willingly agreed to go out with Diggory and form
the reconnoitering party which was to report on the movements of the
enemy.

"I knew you'd come," said the latter; "and we'll show them what sort of
stuff the Triple Alliance is made of."

On the following evening, as soon as tea was over, the two friends
slipped off down into the playground, where they were joined a minute
later by Acton, who, unlocking the shed, took down from the peg on which
it hung the key of the door in the outer wall.

"You'll have plenty of time," he said, glancing at his watch, "and with
this moonlight you'll soon be able to see if they're about. I'll keep
the door, and let you in when you come back."

The next moment the two members of the Alliance were trotting down
Locker's Lane. It was a bright, frosty night, and the hard ground rang
beneath their feet like stone. They turned off on to the grass, lest
the noise should give the enemy warning of their approach; and when
within about a hundred yards of Horace House, pulled up to consider for
a moment what their plan of action should be, before proceeding any
further.

"I don't see any one," said Jack Vance.

"Perhaps they are hiding," answered Diggory. "Look here! let's get into
this field and run down on the other side of the hedge until we get
opposite the gate."

The stronghold of the Philistines was silent as the grave. The two
chums crouched behind a thick bush, and peering through its leafless
branches could see nothing but the closed double doors, and a stretch of
blank wall on either side.

"There's no one about," whispered Vance; "I don't believe old Noaks has
told them."

"Wait a minute," answered Diggory. "I'll see if I can stir any of
them;" and so saying, he knelt up, and cried in an audible voice,
"Now, then, are you all read
y?"

Diggory and Jack Vance dropped flat on their stomachs, for the words had
hardly been uttered when the doors were flung open, and at least ten of
the Philistines rushed out into the road with a yell of defiance.
Many of them were bigger than Acton, and what would have been the fate
of the two Birchites had they kept to the road instead of acting on
Diggory's suggestion of advancing under cover of the hedge, one hardly
dares to imagine.

"Hullo!" cried young Noaks, who had headed the sortie. "There's nobody
here, and yet I'll swear I heard them somewhere."

"So did I," answered another voice; "they must have cut and run."

"There's no place for them to run to," returned Noaks; "they must be
behind that hedge.--Come out of it, you skunks!"

A big stone came crashing through the twigs within a yard of Diggory's
head. The two boys crouched close to the low earth bank and held their
breath.

"They must be about somewhere," cried Noaks. "I knew they were coming,
and I'm sure I heard some one say, 'Are you ready?' They're behind that
hedge. We can't get through, it's too thick; but you fellows stop
here, and I and Hogson and Bernard'll run down to the gate and cut off
their retreat."

"What shall we do?" whispered Jack; "this field's so large they'll run
us down before we get to the other hedge. Shall we make a bolt and
chance it?"

Diggory was just about to reply in the affirmative, when help came from
an unexpected quarter.

"What are you boys doing out here at this time?" cried a loud, stern
voice.--"Noaks, what are you about down the road there?--Come in this
moment, every one of you!"

"Saved!" whispered Jack Vance, in an ecstasy of delight as the
Philistines trooped back through the double doors. "That was old
Phillips. I hope he gives Noaks a jolly good 'impot.' That chap is a
cad," continued the speaker, as they hurried back towards The Birches:
"when he can't do anything else, he chucks stones like he did to-night.
The wonder is he hasn't killed some one before now. I don't see how
it's possible for the Phi
listines to show up well when they've got a
chap like him bossing the show."

The bell for evening preparation was ringing as they reached The
Birches, and only a very few hasty replies could be given to Acton's
eager inquiries as they rushed together up the garden path. In the
little interval before supper, however, the subject was resumed in a
quiet corner of the passage.

"So it must have been old Noaks who told them," said Acton; "that's
proved without a doubt. I vote we go and have a jolly row with him
to-morrow morning."

"No, I shouldn't do that," answered Diggory; "don't let him know that
we've found him out."

"Well, look here," answered Acton, thumping the wall with his fist and
frowning heavily, "what are we going to do to get even with the
Philistines? We can't go out and fight them in Locker's Lane; we're too
small, and they know it. Young Noaks would never have dared to act as
he did after they'd knocked our snow man down if Mason had been here.
They think now they're going to ride rough-shod over us; but they
aren't, and we must show them we aren't going to be trampled on."

"So we will," cried Jack Vance excitedly, "and that jolly quick!"

"But how?"

There was a moment's pause. "I'm sure I don't know," answered Jack
sadly, and so the meeting terminated.

The fact of the insult, which had been put upon them by the destruction
of their snow man, remaining unavenged, caused a sense of gloom to rest
upon the Birchites, as though they already felt themselves suffering
beneath the yoke of the conquering Philistines. Even the bedroom feuds
were forgotten: night after night the "House of Lords" left the
"Dogs' Home" in undisturbed tranquillity, and the occupants of the
"Main-top" retired to rest without even putting a washstand against
their door. One thought occupied the minds of all, and even Mugford,
when asked on one occasion by Mr. Blake who were the conspirators in the
Gunpowder Plot, answered absent-mindedly, "The Philistines!"

"Look here, you two," said Diggory one evening, as he scrambled into

bed, "we three must think of some way of paying those fellows out for
knocking down our snow man. It would be splendid if we could say that
the Triple Alliance had done it, and without telling any one
beforehand."

"So we will," answered Jack Vance; "that is if you'll think of the plan.
I'm not able to make one, and I'm jolly sure Mugford can't."

The speaker turned over and went to sleep; but after what seemed half
the night had passed, he was suddenly aroused by several violent tugs at
his bed-clothes. Thinking it nothing less than a midnight raid, Jack
sprang up and grasped his pillow.

"No, no, it's not that," said Diggory, "but I wanted to help you;
I've got an idea."

"W--what about?" asked the other, in a sleepy voice.

"Why, how we can pay out the Philistines!"

"Oh, bother the Philistines!" grumbled Jack, and promptly returned to
the land of dreams.

"I wonder where those fellows Vance and Trevanock are?" said Acton the
following afternoon, as the boys were picking up for a game at
prisoner's base. "And there's that dummy of a Mugford--where's he
sneaked off to? he never will play games if he can possibly help it."

They set to work, and at the end of about twenty minutes were engaged in
a most exciting rally. Acton had started out to rescue one of the
prisoners, while Shaw had rushed forth to capture Acton. Morris left
the base with similar designs on Shaw, and every one, with the exception
of the den-keepers, seemed suddenly seized with an irresistible desire
to do something. The playground was full of boys rushing and dodging
all over the place, when suddenly everybody stood still and listened.
Some one was pounding with his clinched fist at the door opening into
Locker's Lane, and at the same time Jack Vance was heard shouting,
"Let us in quick, or the Philistines'll have us!"

Acton ran to fetch the key, and the next moment the three members of the
Triple Alliance dashed through the open door, which was hastily secured
behind them, while a shout of baffled rage some little distance down the
road sho
wed that they had only narrowly escaped falling into the hands
of the enemy. The pursuit, however, was evidently abandoned, and
Morris, climbing on the roof of the shed, saw young Noaks and Hogson
slowly retreating round the corner of the road.

The three friends certainly presented a striking appearance. Mugford's
nose was bleeding, Jack Vance's collar seemed to have been nearly torn
off his neck, while Diggory's cap was in his hand, and his hair in a
state of wild disorder. Their faces, flushed with running, were radiant
with a look of triumph, while all three, the unfortunate Mugford
included, leaned up against the wall, and laughed until the tears ran
down their cheeks.

"What have you fellows been up to?" cried Acton; "why don't you tell
us?"

"Oh my!" gasped Diggory, "we've taken a fine rise out of the
Philistines; they can't say we're not quits with them now!" and he went
off into a fresh fit of merriment.

Shaw and Morris seized hold of Jack Vance, and at length succeeded in
shaking him into a sufficient state of sobriety to be able to answer
their questions.

"Oh dear," he said faintly, "I never laughed so much in my life before!
Diggory ought to tell you, because he planned it all. We went very
quietly down to Horace House, and found the double doors were shut.
You know just what they're like, how the wall curves in a bit, and
there's a scraper close to the gate-post, on either side, about a foot
from the ground. We'd got an old play-box cord with us, and we tied it
to each of the scrapers. The doors have a sort of iron ring for a
handle, and through this we stuck a broken cricket-stump, and Mug and I
held the two ends so that you couldn't possibly lift the latch on the
inside. Then--but you go on, Diggy."

"Well, then," continued the other, "I scrambled on to these two chaps'
shoulders, and looked over the top of the door. We could hear some of
the Philistines knocking about on the gravel, and I saw there were
about half a dozen of them playing footer with a tennis-ball. I shouted
out, 'Hullo! Good-aft
ernoon!' They all stood still in a moment, and
young Noaks cried, 'Why, it's a Birchite!--What do you want here, you
young dog?' I couldn't think of anything else to say, so I said,
'I want to know if this is the bear-pit or the monkey-house.' My eye,
you should have seen them! I dropped down in a trice, and they all
rushed to the doors; but they couldn't lift the latch, because Mug and
Jack were holding fast to the stump. We waited a moment, and then let
go and ran for it. You may judge what happened next. It's a regular
sea of mud outside those gates. They all came rushing out together, and
I saw Noaks and Hogson go head first over the rope, and two or three
others fall flat on the top of them. It was a sight, I can tell you!"

"Yes, but that wasn't all," interrupted Jack Vance. "Bernard, one of
their big chaps, hopped over the rest and came after us. We ran for all
we were worth, but he collared me. Mugford went for him, and hung
on to his coat like a young bull-terrier, and got a smack on the nose;
and just then Diggory turned, and came prancing back, and ran his head
into the beggar's stomach, and that doubled him up, and so we all got
away. But," concluded the speaker, turning towards his wounded comrade,
"I never thought old Mug had so much grit in him before; he stuck to it
like a Briton!"

A demonstration of the most genuine enthusiasm followed this warlike
speech. Acton folded Diggory to his breast in a loving embrace, Shaw
and Morris stuffed the door-key down Mugford's back, while the remainder
of the company executed a war-dance round Jack Vance.

"My eye," cried the dux, "won't the Philistines be wild!
Fancy upsetting them in the mud, and knocking Bernard's wind out!
They won't be in a hurry to meddle with us again. Well done, Diggy!"

"It wasn't I alone," said the author of the enterprise; "we did it
between us--the Triple Alliance."

"Then three cheers for the Triple Alliance!" cried Acton.

The company shouted themselves hoarse, for every one felt that the
honour of The Birches had been retrieved,
 and that the day was still far
distant when they would be crushed beneath the iron heel of young Noaks,
or be exposed as an unresisting prey to the ravages of the wild hordes
of Horace House.

CHAPTER IV.

THE SUPPER CLUB.

As this story is to be a history of the Triple Alliance, and not of The
Birches, it will be necessary to pass over many things which happened
at the preparatory school, in order that full justice may be done to the
important parts played by our three friends in an epoch of strange and
stirring events at Ronleigh College.

Diggory, by the daring exploit described in the previous chapter, won
all hearts; and instead of being looked upon as a new boy, was regarded
quite as an old and trusty comrade. Acton displayed marked favour
towards the Triple Alliance, and was even more friendly with Diggory and
Jack Vance than with his room and class mates, Shaw and Morris.

The Philistines seemed, for the time being, paralyzed by the humiliation
of their mud bath, and for many months there was a complete cessation
from hostilities.

It was perhaps only natural that in time of peace a brave knight like
Acton should turn his thoughts from war to love-making, and therefore I
shall make no excuse for relating a little experience of his which
must be introduced as a prelude to the account of the formation of the
famous supper club.

At the very commencement of the summer term it was plain to everybody
that something was wrong with the dux; he seemed to take no interest in
the doings of his companions in the playground, and only once roused
himself sufficiently to bang Cross with a leg-guard for bowling awful
wides at cricket.

At length, one afternoon, Diggory and Jack Vance on entering the shed
found him sitting on the carpenter's bench, with his chin resting in his
hand, and a most ferocious expression on his face.

"Hullo! what's up?"

Acton stared blankly at the new-comers until the question had been
repeated; then he sat up and straightened his back with the air of one
who has made a great resolve.

"I do
n't mind telling you two," he said. "You know I've said before that
I meant some day to propose to Miss Eleanor. Well," he added, stabbing
the bench with the gimlet, "I'm going to do it."

"I've saved five and ninepence," continued the speaker, "to buy a ring
with, but I can't make up my mind whether I'd better speak or write to
her. What do you think?"

"I should say," answered Diggory, after a moment's thought, "that the
best thing would be to toss up for it."

"All right; have you got a coin?"

"No, but I think I've got a brass button. Yes, here it is. Now, then,
front you speak, and back you write. There you are--it's a letter!"

"Well, now," said Acton, getting off the bench and sticking his hands
deep in his trousers pockets, "what had I better say? I shall be
fifteen in August; I thought I'd tell her my age, and say I didn't mind
waiting."

"I believe it's the girl who always says that," answered Jack Vance,
kicking a bit of wood into a corner.

"Then, again, I don't know how to begin. Would you say 'Dear Miss
Eleanor,' or 'Dear Miss Welsby'? I think 'Dear Eleanor' sounds rather
cheeky."

"I'll tell you what I should do," answered Diggory, who seemed to have a
great idea of letting the fates decide these matters: "I should write
'em all three on slips of paper and then draw one."

"Well, I'm going to write the letter in 'prep' this evening, and let her
have it to-morrow. Did you notice I gave her a flower this morning, and
she stuck it in her dress?"

"Yes; but fellows are often doing that," answered Jack Vance, "and she
always wears them, either in her dress or stuck up somehow under her
brooch."

"Oh, but this was a white rose, and a white rose means something, though
I don't know what. At all events, she'll have the letter to-morrow, and
I'll tell you fellows when I give it her, only of course you mustn't
breathe a word to any one else."

"All right: we won't," answered Diggory, "except to old Mugford, because
he's one of the Alliance, and we've sworn not to have any secrets from
each other, and he won'
t split."

That evening the Triple Alliance lay awake until a late hour discussing
the situation. Mugford's opening comment was certainly worth
recording,--

"I hope she'll accept him."

"Why?"

"Why, because if she does, I should think old Welsby'll give us a
half-holiday."

It was evident at breakfast, to those who were in the know, that Acton
was prepared for the venture. He was wearing a clean collar and new
necktie, and ate only four pieces of bread and butter, besides his
bacon.

"He's shown me the letter," whispered Diggory to Jack Vance; "only I
promised I wouldn't say what was in it, but it ends up with a piece of
poetry as long as this table!"

After morning school was the time agreed upon for the dux to cast the
die which was to decide his future; and as soon as the classes were
dismissed, Jack Vance and Diggory met him by appointment in one corner
of the garden.

"I've done it," he said, looking awfully solemn. "She was in the hall,
and I gave it to her as I came out. I say, how many _t's_ are there in
'attachment'?"

Jack Vance thought one, Diggory said two; and the company then relapsed
into silence, and stood with gloomy looks upon their faces, as though
they were waiting to take part in a funeral procession.

At length a voice from the house was heard calling, "Fred--Fred Acton!"
The dux turned a trifle pale, but pulling himself together, marched off
with a firm step to learn his fate.

"She called him Fred," murmured Diggory; "that sounds hopeful."

"Oh, that's nothing," answered Jack Vance; "Miss Eleanor always calls
fellows by their Christian names. There's one thing," he added, after a
few moments' thought--"if she'd cut up rough over the letter, she might
have called him Mr. Acton. Hullo, here he comes!" As he spoke Acton
emerged from the house, and came down the path towards them; his straw
hat was tilted forward over his eyes, and his cheeks were glowing like
the red glass of a dark-room lamp. He sauntered along, kicking up the
gravel with the toe of his boot.

"Well, what happened?" inquir
ed Jack Vance.

No answer.

"What's the matter ?" cried Diggory; "what did she say?"

"Why, this!" answered the other, in a voice trembling with suppressed
emotion: "she said I was a silly boy, and--and--_gave me a lump of
cake!_"

If any one else had done it, the probability is Acton would have slain
them on the spot. Diggory opened his eyes and mouth wide, and then
exploded with laughter. "Oh my!" he gasped, "I shall die, I know I
shall! Ha, ha, ha!"

Acton eyed him for a moment with a look of indignant astonishment; then
he began to smile, Jack Vance commenced to chuckle, and very soon all
three were laughing in concert.

"Well, I think it's rather unfeeling of you fellows," said the rejected
suitor; "I can tell you I'm jolly cut up about it."

"I'm awfully sorry," answered Diggory, "but I couldn't help laughing.
Cheer up; why, think, you won't have to get the ring now, so you can do
what you like with that five and ninepence you saved. Why, it's worth
being refused to have five and ninepence to spend in grub!"

"Ah, Diggy !" said the other, shaking his head in a mournful manner,
"wait till you're as old as I am: when you're close on fifteen you'll
think differently about love and all that sort of thing."

As has already been hinted, it was the failure of this attempt on the
part of the dux to win the heart and hand of Miss Eleanor that
indirectly brought about the formation of the famous supper club.
About a week after the events happened which have just been described,
Acton invited the Triple Alliance to meet the "House of Lords" in the
work-shed, to discuss an important scheme which he said had been in his
mind for some days past; and the door having been locked to exclude
outsiders, he commenced to unfold his project as follows:--

"I've been thinking that during the summer term, and while the weather's
warm, our two rooms might form a supper club. We'd hold it, say, once a
week, when pocket-money is given out, and have a feed together; one time
in your room, and the next in ours, after every one's gone t
o bed.
You know I saved some money at the beginning of the term to buy an
engagement ring with; but I don't want it now, so I'm going to spend the
tin in grub, and if you like I'll stand the first feed."

There was a murmur expressive of approbation at this generous offer,
mingled with sympathy for the unhappy circumstance which gave rise to
it, and which was now an open secret.

"Oh," said Shaw, "that's a grand idea! I know my brother Bob, who's at
a big school at Lingmouth, told me that he and some other chaps formed a
supper club and held it in his study. It's by the sea, and they used to
go out and catch shrimps; and they only had one old coffee-pot, that
they used to boil over the gas; so they cooked the shrimps in it first,
and made the coffee after. One night they only had time to heat it up
once, and so they boiled the shrimps in the coffee; and Bob says they
didn't taste half bad, and that they always used to do it after, to save
time."

"Well, I propose that we have one," cried Morris.

The resolution was carried unanimously. Acton was elected president,
and by way of recognizing the mutual interest of the Triple Alliance,
Jack Vance was appointed to act as secretary, and it was decided to hold
the first banquet on the following night.

"We can buy the grub to-morrow," said Acton; "but there's one thing we
ought to fetch to-day, and that is, I thought we might have, say, six
bottles of ginger-beer. Then each man must take his own up to bed with
him this evening, and hide it away in his box or in one of his drawers."

This was accordingly done, and, as it happened, was the cause of the
only disaster which attended the formation of the club. For the first
week in June the weather was unusually hot: a candle left all day
in the "Main-top" was found drooping out of the perpendicular, and when
the Triple Alliance retired to rest their bedroom felt like an oven.
They were just dozing off to sleep, when all three were suddenly
startled by a muffled bang somewhere close to them. In an instant they
were sitting 
up in bed, rubbing their eyes with one hand and grasping
their pillows with the other.

"Look out, they're coming!" whispered Jack Vance; "wasn't that something
hit the door?"

"It sounded as if something fell on the floor," answered Diggory.
"I wonder if anything's rolled off either of the washstands."

Jack Vance reconnoitred the passage, while Diggory and Mugford examined
the room; but nothing could be found to account for the disturbance.

"It must have been the fellows in the 'Main-top.' I expect they dropped
a book or upset a chair. Don't let's bother about it any more."

The following morning, however, the mystery was explained. The boys
were hastily putting on their clothes, when Mugford, who had just thrown
aside a dirty collar, gave vent to an exclamation of dismay, which
attracted the attention of his two companions.

"Hullo! what's up?"

"Why, look here! If this beastly bottle of ginger-beer hasn't gone and
burst in the middle of my box!"

The first meeting of the supper club was a great success. How ever
Acton and his noble friends had managed to smuggle upstairs, under their
jackets, a pork-pie, a plum-cake, a bag of tarts, and a pound of
biscuits, was a feat which, as Jack Vance remarked, "beat conjuring."

Shortly after midnight the Triple Alliance wended their way to the
"House of Lords," where they found the three other members quite ready
to commence operations. The good things were spread out on the top of a
chest of drawers, and the company ranged themselves round on the
available chairs and two adjacent beds, and commenced to enjoy the
repast.

"Ah, well," sighed Acton, with his mouth full of pork-pie, "I'm rather
glad for some things that I didn't get engaged. It must be rather a
bore having to spend all your money in rings and that sort of thing,
instead of in grub; though I really think I'd have given up grub for
Miss Eleanor."

"I wonder," said Morris, who was of a more prosaic disposition, "how it
is that it's always much jollier having a feed when you ought not to
than at the proper ti
me. For instance, eating this pork-pie at a table,
with knife and fork and a plate, wouldn't be a quarter the fun it is
having it like we're doing now--cutting it with a razor out of Acton's
dressing-case, and knowing that if we were cobbed we should get into a
jolly row."

"Talking about rows over feeds," said Acton, "my brother John is at
Ronleigh College, and I remember, soon after he went there, he said they
had a great spree in his dormitory. One of the chaps had had a hamper
sent him, and they smuggled the grub upstairs; and when they thought the
coast was clear, they spread a sheet on the floor, and laid out the grub
as if it were on a table-cloth. The fellow who was standing treat was
rather a swell in his way, and among other things he'd got his jam put
out in a flat glass dish. It was a fine feed, and they'd just begun,
when they heard some one coming. They'd only just got time to turn out
the gas and jump into bed before the door opened, and in came one of the
masters called Weston. Well, of course, they all pretended to be
asleep. But the master had heard them scrambling about, and he walked
in the dark up the aisle between the beds, saying, 'Who's been out of
bed here?' Then all of a sudden he stuck his foot into the glass
jam-dish, and it slid along the floor, and down he came bang in the
middle of all the spread. John said that when the gas was lit they
couldn't help laughing at old Weston: he'd rammed one elbow into a box
of sardines, and there was a cheese-cake stuck in the middle of his
back. But oh, there was a row, I can tell you!"

This yarn produced others, and the time passed pleasantly enough, until
full justice had been done to the provisions, and hardly a crumb
remained.

"Phew! isn't it hot?" said Diggory; "let's open the window a bit.
The moon must be full," he continued, as he raised the sash; "it's
nearly as light as day. I can see all down the garden, and--hullo!
quick, put the candle out!"

Every one started to his feet, and the light was extinguished in a
moment.

"What is it--wha
t's the matter?" they all asked. "There's some one in
the playground," whispered Diggory, as the others crowded round him.
"You see the door at the bottom of the garden; well, just when I spoke
some one opened it and looked up at the house, and then shut it again.
It must have been Blake, and he's seen our light."

"It can't be Blake," answered Acton; "he's gone to Fenley to play in a
cricket match, and isn't coming back till to-morrow morning. Old Welsby
went to bed hours ago; and, besides, what should either of them want to
be doing down there at this time of night? You must have been dreaming,
Diggy."

"No, I wasn't; I saw it distinctly. It must be old Blake. He's come
home sooner than he expected, and I shouldn't wonder if he's going
round by the road to take us by surprise."

"He can't do that," answered Acton, "because I've got the key of the
shed, and the door-key's hung up inside."

Acton remained watching at the window while the others hastily cleared
away all traces of the feast; the Triple Alliance retired to their own
room, and nothing further was heard or seen of the mysterious visitor.

The next morning it was discovered that Mr. Blake had not returned from
Fenley, and the five other members of the supper club were inclined to
regard Diggory's vision of the midnight intruder as a sort of waking
nightmare, resulting from an overdose of cake and pork-pie. Two days
later Cross came into the schoolroom in a great state of excitement.

"Look here, you fellows," he exclaimed: "some one keeps taking away my
things out of the shed, and not putting them back. Last week I missed a
saw and two chisels, and now that brace and nearly all the bits are
gone. It's a jolly shame!"

Carpentering was Cross's great hobby, and his collection of tools was an
exceptionally good one, both as regards quantity and quality. Every
one, however, denied having touched the things mentioned. A general
search was made; but the missing articles could not be found, and at
length the matter was reported to Mr. Welsby.

The latter was 
evidently greatly displeased on hearing the facts of the
case. As soon as dinner was over he called the school together, and
after standing for some moments in silence, frowning at the book he
carried in his hand, said briefly,--

"With regard to these tools, there is a word which has never been used
before in connection with any pupil at The Birches, and which I hope I
may never have occasion to use again. I can hardly think it possible
that we have a _thief_ in the house. I am rather inclined to imagine
that some one has removed the things and hidden them away in joke; if
so, let me tell him that the joke has been allowed to go too far, and
that, unless they are returned at once, a shadow of doubt will be cast
upon the honour and integrity of all here present. It is impossible for
such large articles as a saw and a brace to be mislaid or lost on such
small premises as these, and I trust that before this evening you will
report to me that the things have been found. I have purposely allowed
the key of the shed to remain in your own possession, feeling certain
that your behaviour as regards each other's property would be in
accordance with the treatment which one gentleman expects to receive
from another. You may go."

There was little in the nature of a scolding in this address, and yet
something in it caused every one to leave the room in a state of great
excitement. Acton and Jack Vance especially fairly boiled with wrath.

"What old Welsby says is quite right," remarked the latter; "and until
those things are found, we may all be looked upon as thieves."

The search, however, proved fruitless; and, what was worse, in turning
over the contents of the shed, Acton discovered that a bull's-eye
lantern belonging to himself had disappeared from the shelf on which it
usually stood; while Mugford declared that a box of compasses, which he
had brought down a few days before to draw a pattern on a piece of
board, was also missing.

Directly after tea Acton button-holed Diggory, and taking him aside
said, "Look here, I'
m in an awful rage about these thing's being
prigged, because, of course, I've got the key of the shed; and didn't
you hear what old Welsby said about it? It looks uncommonly as if I
were the thief. You remember what you said the other night when we had
that feed, about seeing that man? D'you think there _is_ any one who
comes here at night and steals things?"

"Well, I'm certain I saw some one in the playground when I told you.
It was a man; but whether he comes regularly and goes into the shed I
don't know, but I think we ought to be able to find out."

"How?"

"Oh, some way or other; I'll tell you to-morrow." That night, long
after the rest of the house were asleep, the Triple Alliance lay awake
engaged in earnest conversation; and in the morning, as the boys were
assembling for breakfast, Diggory touched Acton on the shoulder and
whispered,--

"I say, we've thought of a plan to find out if any one goes into the
shed at night."

"Who's 'we'?"

"Why, the Triple Alliance; we thought it out between us. Sneak out of
the house directly after evening 'prep,' and meet me in the playground,
and I'll show you what it is."

At the time appointed Acton ran down the path, and found Diggory waiting
for him by the shed.

"Look," said the latter, "I've cut a little tiny slit with my knife in
each door-post, about three feet from the ground, and I'm going to
stretch this piece of black cotton between them. No one will see it,
and if they go through the door, the thread will simply draw out of one
of the slits without their noticing it, and we shall see that it's been
disturbed. Jack Vance says that when he's been out shooting with his
guv'nor he's seen the keeper put them across the paths in a wood to find
out if poachers have been up them. Now unlock the door, and let's go
inside."

In front of the bench, where the ground had been much trodden, there was
a great deal of loose dust. Diggory went down on his hands and knees,
and producing an old clothes-brush from his pocket, swept about a square
yard of the ground until the d
ust lay in a perfectly smooth surface.

"There," he said, rising to his feet again; "we'll do this the last
thing every night, and any morning if we find the cotton gone we must
look here for footprints, and then we ought to be able to tell if it's
a man or a boy."

"Don't you think we ought to tell Blake about that man you saw?" asked
Acton, as they walked back to the schoolroom.

"Well, I don't see how we can," answered Diggory. "The first thing
he'll ask will be,' Who saw him?' I shall say, 'I did;' and then he'll
want to know how I saw the playground door from my bedroom window, which
looks out on the road; and then the fat'll be in the fire, and it'll all
come out about that supper."

Regularly every evening, as soon as supper was over, the two boys stole
down into the playground to set their trap; but when morning came there
was no sign of the shed having been entered. This went on for nearly a
month, but still no result.

"I don't think it's any good bothering about it any more," said Acton;
"the thief doesn't mean to come again."

"Well, we'll set it to-night," answered Diggory, "and that shall be the
last time."

The following morning Acton was sauntering towards the playground, when
Diggory came running up the path in a state of great excitement.
"I say, the cotton's gone!"

Acton rushed down, unlocked the door of the shed, and went inside.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed, as Diggory followed; "_it is_ some man. Look at
these footprints, and hobnailed boots into the bargain!"

CHAPTER V.

CATCHING A TARTAR.

It was impossible for two boys to keep such an important discovery to
themselves, and the shed was soon filled with an eager crowd, all
anxious to view the mysterious footprints. The Triple Alliance
gained fresh renown as the originators of the scheme by which the
disclosure had been made, and it was unanimously decided that the matter
should be reported to Mr. Blake.

The master cross-questioned Acton and Diggory, but seemed rather
inclined to doubt their story.

"I think," he said, "you must be mistaken. I
 expect the piece of
cotton blew away, and the foot-marks must have been there before.
I don't see what there is in the shed that should make it worth any
one's while to break into it; besides, if the door was locked, the thief
must have broken it open, and you'd have seen the marks."

Certainly nothing seemed to have been touched, and as no boy complained
of any of his property having been stolen, the subject was allowed to
drop, and the usual excitement connected with the end of term and the
near approach of the holidays soon caused it to be driven from every
one's thoughts and wellnigh forgotten.

With the commencement of the winter term a fresh matter filled the minds
of the Triple Alliance, and gave them plenty of food for discussion and
plan-making. On returning to Chatford after the summer holidays, they
discovered that all three were destined to leave at Christmas and
proceed to Ronleigh College, a large school in the neighbourhood, to
which a good number of Mr. Welsby's former pupils had been transferred
after undergoing a preliminary course of education at The Birches.
Letters from these departed heroes, containing disjointed descriptions
of their new surroundings, awakened a feeling of interest in the doings
of the Ronleigh College boys. The records of their big scores at
cricket, or their victories at football, which appeared in local papers,
were always read with admiration; and the name of an old Birchite
appearing in either of the teams was a thing of which every one felt
justly proud.

"I wish I was going too," said Acton, addressing the three friends;
"but my people are going to send me to a school in Germany. My brother
John is there; he's one of the big chaps, and is captain of the football
team this season. I'm going to get the _Denfordshire Chronicle_ every
week, to see how they get on in the matches."

Early in October the goal-posts were put up in the field, and the
Birchites commenced their football practice. Mr. Blake was a leading
member of the Chatford Town Club, and although six a side
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent postpaid, on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CARBOLIC SALVE |
 | |
 | Recommended by Physicians. |
 | |
 | The best Salve in use for all disorders of the skin, |
 | for Cuts, Burns, Wounds, &c. |
 | |
 | USED IN HOSPITALS. |
 | |
 | SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS. |
 | |
 | PRICE 25 CENTS. |
 | |
 | JOHN F. HENRY, Sole Proprietor, |
 | No. 8 College Place, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades, as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | Sole Agents for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol. 1. No. 22.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,
By ORPHEUS C. KERR,
Continued in this Number.

[Sidenote: See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $47,000 REWARD. |
 | |
 | PROCLAMATION. |
 | |
 | The Murder of Mr. Benjamin Nathan. |
 | |
 | The widow having determined to increase the rewards |
 | heretofore offered by me (in my proclamation of July 29), |
 | and no result having yet been obtained, and suggestions 
|
 | having been made that the rewards were not sufficiently |
 | distributive or specific, the offers in the previous |
 | proclamation are hereby superseded by the following: |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $30,000 will be paid for the arrest and |
 | conviction of the murderer of BENJAMIN NATHAN, who was |
 | killed in his house, No. 12 West Twenty-third Street, New |
 | York, on the morning of Friday, July 29. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $1,000 will be paid for the identification and |
 | recovery of each and every one of the three Diamond Shirt |
 | Studs which were taken from the clothing of the deceased on |
 | the night of the murder. Two of the diamonds weighed, |
 | together, 1, 1/2, and 1/3, and 1/16 carats, and the other, a |
 | flat stone, showing nearly a surface of one carat, weighed |
 | 3/4 and 1/32. All three were mounted in skeleton settings, |
 | with spiral screws, but the color of the gold, setting of |
 | the flat diamond was not so dark as the other two. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $1,500 will be paid for the identification and |
 | recovery of one of the watches, being the Gold anchor |
 | Hunting-case Stem-winding Watch, No. 6657, 19 lines, or |
 | about two inches in diameter, made by Ed. Perregaux; or for |
 | the Chain and Seals thereto attached. The Chain is very |
 | massive, with square links, and carries a Pendant Chain with |
 | two seals, one of them having the monogram "B.N.," cut |
 | thereon. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $300 will be given for information leading to |
 | the identification and recovery of an old-fashioned |
 | open-faced Gold Watch, with gold dial, showing rays |
 | diverging from the center, and with raised figures; believed |
 | to have been made by Tobias, and which was taken at the same |
 | time as the above articles. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $300 will be given for the recovery of a Gold |
 | Medal of about the size of a silver dollar, and which bears |
 | an inscription of presentation not precisely known, but |
 | believed to be either "To Sampson Simpson, President of the |
 | Jews'
 Hospital," or, "To Benjamin Nathan, President of the |
 | Jews' Hospital." |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $100 will be given for full and complete |
 | detailed information descriptive of this medal, which may be |
 | useful in securing its recovery. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $1,000 will be given for information leading to |
 | the identification of the instrument used in committing the |
 | murder, which is known as a "dog" or clamp, and is a piece |
 | of wrought iron about sixteen inches long, turned up for |
 | about an inch at each end, and sharp; such as is used by |
 | ship-carpenters, or post-trimmers, ladder-makers, |
 | pump-makers, sawyers, or by iron-moulders to clamp their |
 | flasks. |
 | |
 | A REWARD of $800 will be given to the man who, on the |
 | morning of the murder, was seen to ascend the steps and pick |
 | up a piece of paper lying there, and then walk away with it, |
 | if he will come forward and produce it. |
 | |
 | Any information bearing upon the case may be sent to the |
 | Mayor, John Jourdan, Superintendent of Police City of New |
 | York; or to James J. Kelso, Chief Detective Officer. |
 | |
 | A. OAKEY HALL, MAYOR. |
 | |
 | The foregoing rewards are offered by |
 | the request of, |
 | and are guaranteed by me. |
 | |
 | Signed, EMILY G. NATHAN, |
 | Widow of B. NATHAN. |
 | |
 | The following reward has also been offered by the New York |
 | Stock Exchange: |
 | |
 | $10,000--The New York Stock Exchange offers a reward of Ten |
 | Thousand Dollars for the arrest and conviction of the |
 | murderer or murderers of Benjamin Nathan, late a member of |
 | said Exchange, who was killed on the night of July 28, 1870, |
 | at his house in Twenty-third street, New York City. |
 | |
 | J.L. BROWNELL, Vice-Chairman, Gov. Com. |
 | D.C. HAYS, Treasurer. |
 | B.O. WHITE, Secretary. |
 | MAYOR'S OFFICE, New York, August 5, 1870. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for July, |
 |
 |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price, Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary._ |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents_. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAILROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at |
 | |
 | WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, and July, an attractive and |
 | Saleable Work. |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | [P.O. BOX 2845.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +-----------------------------------------
---------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY. |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew, |
 | commencing May 31, will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8.45, and |
 | Thirty-fourth st at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers, (Nyack, and |
 | Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill, |
 | Hudson, and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge |
 | cars in connection with the day boats will leave on arrival |
 | at Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare |
 | $4.25 from New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat |
 | Seneca will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | ESTABLISHED 1866. |
 | |
 | Jas R. Nichols, M.D., Wm. J. Rolfe, A.M., Editors |
 | |
 | Boston Journal of Chemistry. |
 | |
 | Devoted to the Science of |
 | |
 | HOME LIFE, |
 | |
 | The Arts, Agriculture, and Medicine. |
 | |
 | $1.00 Per Year. |
 | |
 | _Journal and Punchinello (without Premium)_ $4.00. |
 | |
 | SEND FOR SPECIMEN-COPY. |
 | |
 | Address--JOURNAL OF CHEMISTRY, |
 | |
 | 150 CONGRESS STREET, BOSTON. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XV.

"SPOTTED."

When the bell of St. Cow's began ringing for Ritualistic
morning-service, with a sound as of some incontinently rambling d
un
spinster of the lacteal herd--now near at hand in cracked dissonance, as
the wind blows hither; now afar, in tinkling distance, as the wind blows
hence--MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON was several miles away from Bumsteadville
upon his walking-match, with head already bumped like a pineapple, and
face curiously swelled, from amateur practice with the Indian Club.
Being by that time cold enough for breakfast, and willing to try the
virtues of some soothing application to his right eye, which, from a
bruise just below it, was nearly closed, the badly banged young man
suspended his murderous calisthenics at the door of a rustic hotel, and
there entered to secure a wayside meal.

The American country "hotel," or half-way house, is, perhaps, one of the
most depressing fictions ever encountered by stage-passenger, or
pedestrian afield: and depends so exclusively upon the imagination for
any earthly distinction from the retired and neglected private hiding-place
of some decayed and morbid agricultural family, that only the
conventional swing sign-board before the door saves the cognizant mind
from a painfully dense confusion. Smelling about equally of eternal
wash-day, casual cow-shed, and passing feather-bed, it sustains a lank,
middle-aged, gristly man to come out at the same hour every day and
grunt unintelligibly at the stage-driver, an expressionless boy in a
bandless straw-hat and no shoes to stare blankly from the doorway at
the same old pole-horse he has mechanically thus inspected from infancy,
and one speckled hen of mature years to poise observingly on single leg
at the head of the shapeless black dog asleep at the sunny end of the
low wooden stoop. It is the one rural spot on earth where a call for
fresh eggs evokes remonstrative and chronic denial; where chickens for
dinner are sternly discredited as mere freaks of legendary romance, and
an order for a glass of new milk is incredulously answered by a
tumblerful of water which tastes of whitewash-brush. Whosoever sleeps
there of a night shall be crowded by walls whi
ch rub off into a faint
feather-bed of the flavor and consistency of geese used whole, and have
for his feverish breakfast in the morning a version of broiled ham as
racy of attic-salt as the rasher of BACON'S essays. And to him who pays
his bill there, ere he straggles weakly forth to repair his shattered
health by frenzied flight, shall be given in change such hoary ten-cent
shreds of former postal currency as he has not hitherto deemed credible,
sticking together in inextricable conglomeration by such fragments of
fish-scales as he never before believed could be gathered by handled
small-money from palms not sufficiently washed after piscatorial
diversion.

It was in at a country hotel, then, that the young Southern pedestrian
turned for temporary rest and a meal, and pitiless was the
cross-examination instituted by the inevitable lank, middle-aged gristly
man, before he could reconcile it with his duty as a cautious public
character to reveal the treasures of the larder. Those bumps on the
head, that swollen eye, and nose, came--did they?--from swinging this
here club for exercise. Well, he wanted to know, now! People generally
used two of the clubs at once--did they?--but one was enough for a
beginner. Well, he _wanted_ to know, now! Could he supply a couple of
poached eggs and a cup of milk? No, young man; but a slice of corned
pork and a bowl of tea were within the resources of the establishment.

When at length upon the road again, the bruised youth resolved to follow
a cattle-track "across lots," for the greater space in which to exercise
with his Indian club as he walked. Like any other novice in the
practice, he could not divest his mind of the impression, that the
frightful thumps he continually received, in twirling the merciless
thing around and behind his devoted head, were due to some kind of
crowding influence from the boundaries on either side the way, and it
was to gain relief from such damaging contraction of area that he left
the highway for the wider wintry fields. Going onward in these latt
er at
an irregular pace; sometimes momentarily stunned into a rangy stagger by
a sounding blow on the cerebrum or the cerebellum; and, again, irritated
almost to a run by contusion of shoulder-blade or funny-bone; he finally
became aware that two men were following him through the lots, and that
with a closeness of attention indicating more than common interest. To
the perception of his keenly sensitive Southern nature they at once
became ribald Yankee vandals, hoping for unseemly amusement from the
detection of some awkwardness in the Indian-club-play of a defeated but
not conquered Southern Gentleman; and, in the haughty sectional pride of
his contemptuous soul, he indignantly determined to show not the least
consciousness of their disrespectful observation. Twirling the club
around and around his battered head with increasing velocity, he smiled
scornfully to himself, nor deigned a single backward glance at the one
of his two followers who approached more rapidly than the other. He
heard the hindermost say to the foremost, "Leave him alone, I tell you,
and he'll knock himself down in a minute," and, in a passionately
reckless effort of sheer bravado to catch the club from one hand with
the other while it yet circled swiftly over his skull, he accidentally
brought the ungovernable weapon into tremendous contact with the top of
his head, and dashed himself violently to the earth.

"Didn't I tell you he'd do it?" cried the hindermost of the two
strangers, coming up; while the other coolly seated himself upon the
prostrated victim. "These here Indian clubs always throw a man if he
ain't got muscle in his arms; and this here little Chivalry has got arms
like a couple of canes."

"Arise from me instantly, fellow. You're sitting upon my breast-pin,"
exclaimed MONTGOMERY to the person sitting upon him.

They suffered him to regain his feet, which he did with extreme hauteur,
and surveyed his bumped head and swollen countenance with undisguised
wonder.

"How dare you treat a Southerner in this way?" continued the young
 man,
his head aching inexpressibly. "I thought the war was over long ago. If
money is your object, seek out a citizen of some other section than
mine; for the South is out of funds just now, owing to the military
outrages of Northern scorpions."

"We're constables, Mr. PENDRAGON," was the reply, "and it is our duty to
take you back to the main road, where a couple of your friends are
waiting for you."

Staring from one to the other in speechless wonder at what this fresh
outrage upon the down-trodden South could mean, MONTGOMERY allowed them
to replace his Indian club in his hand, and conduct him back to the
public road; where, to his increased bewilderment, he found Gospeler
SIMPSON and the Ritualistic organist.

"What is the matter, gentlemen?" he asked, in great agitation: "must I
take the oath of Loyalty; or am I required by Yankee philanthropy to
marry a negress?"

At the sound of his voice, Mr. BUMSTEAD left the shoulder of Mr.
SIMPSON, upon which he had been leaning with great weight, and, coming
forward in three long skips, deliberately wound his right hand in the
speaker's neck-tie.

"Where are those nephews--where's that umbrella?" demanded the organist,
with considerable ferocity.

"Nephews!--umbrella!" gasped the other.

"The EDWINS--bone handle," explained Mr. BUMSTEAD, lurching towards his
captive.

"Mr. MONTGOMERY," interposed the Gospeler, sadly, Mr. DROOD went out
with you last night, late, from his estimable uncle's lodgings, and has
not been seen since. Where is he?"

"He went back into the house again, sir, after I had walked him up and
down the road a few times."

"Well, then, where's that umbrella?" roared the organist, who seemed
quite beside himself with grief and excitement.

"Mr. BUMSTEAD, pray be more calm," implored the Reverend OCTAVIUS.

"Mr. MONTGOMERY, this agitated gentleman's nephew has been mysteriously
missing ever since he went out with you at midnight: also an alpaca
umbrella."

"Upon my honor, I know nothing of either," ejaculated the unhappy
Southerner.

Mr. BUMSTEAD, stil
l holding him by the neck-tie, cast a fiery and
unsettled glance around at nothing in particular; then ground his teeth
audibly, and scowled.

"My boy's missing!" he said, hissingly.--"Y'understand?--he's
missing.--I must insist upon searching the prisoner."

In the presence of Gospeler and constables, and loftily regardless alike
of their startled wonder and the young man's protests, the maddened
uncle of the lost DROOD deliberately examined all the captive's pockets
in succession. In one of them was a penknife, which, after thoughtfully
trying it upon his pink nails, he abstractedly placed in his own pocket.
Searching next the overwhelmed Southerner's travelling-satchel, he found
in it an apple, which he first eyed with marked suspicion, and then bit
largely into, as though half expecting to find in it some traces of his
nephew.

"I'll keep this suspicious fruit," he remarked, with a hollow laugh;
and, bearing unreservedly upon the nearer arm of the hapless MONTGOMERY,
and eating audibly as he surged onward, he started on the return march
for Bumsteadville.

Not a word more was spoken until, after a cool Christmas stroll of about
eight and a quarter miles, the whole party stood before Judge SWEENEY in
the house of the latter. There, when the story had been sorrowfully
repeated by the Gospeler, Mr. BUMSTEAD exhibited the core of the apple,
and tickled the magistrate almost into hysterics by whispering very
closely in his ear, that it was a core curiously similar to that of the
last apple eaten by his nephew; and, having been found in an apple from
the prisoner's satchel, might be useful in evidence. Judge SWEENEY
wished to know if Mr. PENDRAGON had any political relations, or could
influence any votes? and, upon being answered in the negative, eyed the
young man sternly, and said that appearances were decidedly against him.
He could not exactly commit him to jail without accusation, although the
apple-core and his political unimportance subjected him to grave
suspicion: but he should hold the Gospeler responsibl
e for the youth's
appearance at any time when his presence should be required. Mr.
BUMSTEAD, whose eyes were becoming very glassy, then suggested that a
handbill should be at once printed and circulated, to the effect that
there had been Lost, or Stolen, two Black Alpaca Nephews, about 5 feet 8
inches high, with a bone handle, light eyes and hair, and whalebone
ribs; and that if the said EDWIN would return, with a brass ferule
slightly worn, the finder should receive earnest thanks, and be seen
safely to his home by J. BUMSTEAD. Mr. Gospeler SIMPSON and Judge
SWEENEY agreed that a handbill should be issued: but thought it might
confuse the public mind if the missing nephew and the lost umbrella were
not kept separate.

"Has either 'f you gen'l'men ever been 'n Uncle?" asked the Ritualistic
organist, with dark intensity.

They shook their heads.

"_Then,_" said Mr. BUMSTEAD, with great force,--"THEN, gen'l'men,
you-knownor-wahritis-to-lose-'n-umbrella!"

Before they could decide in their weaker minds what the immediate
connection was, he had left them, at a sharp slant, in great
intellectual disturbance, and was passing out through the entry-way with
both his hands against the wall.

Early next morning, while young Mr. PENDRAGON was locked in his room,
startled and wretched, the inconsolable uncle of EDWIN DROOD was
energetically ransacking every part of Bumsteadville for the missing
man. House after house he visited, like some unholy inspector: peering
up chimneys, prodding under carpets, and staying a long time in cellars
where there was cider. Not a bit of paper or cloth blew along the
turnpike but he eagerly picked it up, searched in it with the most
anxious care, and finally placed it in his hat. Going to the Pond, with
a borrowed hatchet, he cut a bole in the thick ice, lost the hatchet,
and, after bathing his head in the water, declared that his alpaca
nephew was not there. Finding an antique flask in one of his pockets, he
gradually removed all the liquid contents therefrom with a tubular
straw, but still 
could discern no traces of EDWIN DROOD. All the
live-long day he prosecuted his researches, to the great discomposure of
the populace: and, with whitewash all over the back of his coat, and
very dingy hands, had just seated himself at his own fireside in the
evening, when Mr. DIBBLE came in.

"This is a strange disappearance," said Mr. DIBBLE.

"And it was good as new," groaned the organist, with but one eye open.

"Almost new!--_what_ was?"

"Th'umbrella."

"Mr. BUMSTEAD," returned the old man, coldly, "I am not talking of an
umbrella, but of Mr. EDWIN."

"Yesh, I know," said the uncle. "Awright. I'm li'lle sleepy; tha'sall."

"I've just seen my ward, Mr. BUMSTEAD."

"'She puerwell, shir?"

"She is _not_ pretty well. Nor is Miss PENDRAGON."

"I'm vahr' sorry," said Mr. BUMSTEAD, just audibly.

"Miss PENDRAGON scorns the thought of any blame for her brother,"
continued Mr. DIBBLE, eyeing the fire.

"It had a bun-bone handle," muttered the other, dreamily. Then, with a
momentary brightening--"'scuse me, shir: whah'll y'take?"

"Nothing, sir!" was the sharp response. "I'm not at all thirsty. But
there is something more to tell you. At the last meeting of my ward and
your nephew--just before your dinner here,--they concluded to break
their engagement of marriage, for certain good reasons, and thenceforth
be only brother and sister to each other."

Starting forward in his chair, with partially opened eyes, the
white-washed and dingy Mr. BUMSTEAD managed to get off his hat, covering
himself with a bandanna handkerchief and innumerable old pieces of paper
and cloth, as he did so, from head to foot; made a feeble effort to
throw it at the aged lawyer; and then, chair and all, tumbled forward
with a crash to the rug, where he lay in a refreshing sleep.

(_To be Continued._)

 * * * * *

CHINCAPIN AT LONG BRANCH.

A QUAKER friend of mine once observed that he loved the Ocean for its
Broad Brim. So do I, but not for that alone. I am partial to it on
account of the somewhat extensive facilities it affords for Sea Bathing.
L
earning to swim, by the way, was my principal Elementary study. I have
just returned from taking a plunge in company with many other
distinguished persons. How it cools one to rush into the "Boiling Surf."
How refreshing to dive Below the Billow. I don't think I could ever have
a Surfeit of the Surf, I am so fond of it. Oh! the Sea! the Sea! with
its darkly, deeply cerulean--but stop! I am getting out of my depth.
Would that I were a poet, that I--But I ain't, so what's the use?

As I sat on the verandah of the ------ Hotel the other morning, gazing
on the broad expanse of Ocean and wiping the perspiration which trickled
from my lofty brow, (the thermometer marked 90 degrees,) I could not
help recalling the beautifully appropriate lines of the celebrated bard:

 "When the sun's perpendicular rays
 Begin to illumine the Sea,
 The fishies exclaim in amaze
 'Confound it! how hot it will be!'"

What a pity that the Bathing here has a drawback. I refer, of course, to
the Under Tow, which has caused some Untoward accidents. Those who have
experienced it, say it is impossible to keep your Feet when caught by
the Under Tow. Presence of mind is indispensable in such a case, but,
unfortunately, timid swimmers are too apt to lose their Heads as well as
their feet. Some of the lady visitors are Beautiful Swimmers, and their
Divers Charms excite universal admiration. Many of these fair
Amphitrites are so constantly in or on the water that it would hardly be
a Fib to call them Amphibious. Their husbands and brothers are, I regret
to say, not so much On the Water, preferring something a trifle stronger
semi-occasionally, if not oftener.

You know what a popular amusement crabbing is here. I seldom indulge in
it myself, as I have bad luck, which makes me Crabbed.

Our "distinguished guests," as JENKINS would say, are very numerous, and
it is truly an edifying sight to see judges, legislators, eminent
politicians, and other "Heads of the People" bobbing about in the water
together.

Some folks don't seem to care what they spend w
hen they come here, and
no sooner arrive at the Branch than they Branch out into all sorts of
extravagance. There is some superb horseflesh here just now, and the
fastest nags may be seen doing their Level best on the Smooth Beach. The
Race Track, Grand Stand, &c., are all that the vivid fancy of a
PUNCHINELLO can paint them. The bathing costumes! who can do justice to
them and their lovely wearers? Some time ago, (as I am informed,) a lady
made her appearance on the beach as a Nereid. Did you Ne'er read of the
Nereids, Mr. PUNCHINELLO? If you have, you are aware that they were the
Sea Nymphs of the Ancients, in other words the Old Maids of the Sea, who
never got married, and frequently played Scaly tricks on Mariners. The
Nereid referred to was arrayed in pea green and spangles, with green
tresses, which is very well known to be the correct costume of a mermaid
of antiquity, copied from the latest Paris fashions. This Spritely lady
was, however, unprovided with a tail, which was Unmermaidenlike in the
Extreme.

You know how brilliant the Hops are, so I will Skip them. One thing,
however, is worth noting. At some of the Hotels they have a Spread on
the carpet before the dancing begins, as well as a supper afterwards.
The excellent music of the Hotel bands is Instrumental in drawing crowds
of listeners to the Ball rooms. Some Chinese Jugglers gave an
entertainment here the other evening, but I didn't go, not being in the
Juggler Vein. Yours Reverentially,

CHINCAPIN.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: PRUSSIC ACID.

"FIFTY DOUSAND FENIANS ARMED MID REPEATERS FOR FRANCE! LET 'EM GO!
BEESMARK WILL MAKE DEM NOT COOM PACK TO REPEAT IN DIS GOONDERY NO MORE!"]

 * * * * *

THE POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO IV.

 Little JACK HORNER
 Sat in a corner.
 Eating a Christmas Pie:
 He put in his thumb
 And pulled out a plum,
 And said, "What a brave boy am I."

In Canto I, I have shown the varied emotions which seized the tender
soul of Old Mother HUBBARD'S Dog. Emotions so fierce in their sorrow,
that they left not a single wiggle in h
is tail: his hopes were crushed,
his expectations ruined. In Canto II I have pictured the musical
propensities of the genus _Cat_, the wandering vagaries of the moon-dane
cow, the purp's withering contempt thereat, and the frisky evolutions of
the dish which rolled off on its ear. In Canto III I have portrayed the
"tender passion" and its melancholy result on the hill-side--a fitting
illustration of the fact that the course of true love never did run
smooth, especially if there were big rocks to knock one's toes against.
And now, in Canto IV, I am about to portray childish innocence in the
pursuit of bliss.

All things are graded, with the trifling exception of many of our
streets. But who cares about this grade of bliss? I don't, and I am sure
the poet didn't when he sang the lines at the head of this chapter.
Bliss is graded. The old man in Wall street, with white hair and white
necktie, and smooth polished tongue, has his degree of bliss when he is
engaged in throwing stones at the Apes in the tree-top, that they may
return the throw with gold cocoa-nuts. The young lady has her degree of
bliss when her waist is entwined by "Dear CHAWLES," who soothes her
troubled spirit with the tender melody of "Red as a beet is
she,"--alluding to her would-be rival. The nice young man has his degree
of bliss when he chews a tooth-pick--poor goose! (not the nice young
man, but the fowl which gave the quill,)--and is given a smile by a
dark-eyed female in a passing stage.

And Infantdom has--But our poet beautifully illustrates this in the
stanzas we have quoted.

 "Little JACK HORNER,"

says he, with the easy grace of one perfectly familiar with the subject
he is to treat; neither frightened at its immensity, nor putting himself
in the way of a dilemma by stopping to examine details. Little JACK was
the poet's pet because he was the afflicted one of the household, and
poets know full well how to sympathize with affliction. Perhaps JACK sat
down to dinner next to cross-eyed SUSAN ANN, "by Brother BILL'S gal,"
and perhaps JACK'
S nose was tickled by a little blue-bottle, and that he
sneezed right into her soup-plate; and then he was hurried from the
table for blowing a fly into SUSAN ANN'S soup! He would lose his dinner.
His napkin would miss its accustomed wash!

"Shall it be thus? No!" says the poet. "Dry your tears, little JACK, go
to the well-stocked pantry, my boy, and get something to eat. The jury
will not convict you of stealing, for their verdict will be that you did
the deed in self-defence." And he did--go to the closet, and--

 "Sat in the corner,
 Eating a Christmas Pie."

See the smiles as they wreathe themselves on his chubby countenance. How
little JACK looks at the pie! how he turns it round and round to find
the best spot whereon to begin the attack! How he smacks his lips, and
thinks how nice it would be if he _could_ wish to give SUSAN ANN a
taste! But he can't.

Suddenly an idea strikes JACK. He has heard Uncle TOM talk of a big war
between Frawnce and Proossia, and all about the soldiers and the cannon,
and the big noises. Little JACK will make war on the pie. He will be
Frawnce, the pie will be Proossia. He sets it squarely before him on the
floor; rolls up his sleeves, may be; his eyes sparkle with
determination; he finds the most vulnerable spot in the crust; he makes
one bold dive with his thumb, it goes down, down down, crushing
everything before it; it feels something; renewed vigor flows through
JACK'S veins, and gives him new strength for the attack; victory crowns
him; and, in the words of the poet,

 "He pulled out a plum,
 And said, 'What a brave boy am I.'"

--Now he is happy. He has realized his fondest hopes. The blue-bottle
has no tickle for him now. He was Frawnce and he has licked Proossia.
There is nothing left but the plate, and his teeth are not hard enough
for that.

 * * * * *

"Hooray for the Impurrur!"

The ardor with which our Milesian element embraces the cause of France
furnishes a puzzle for many thoughtful minds; and yet its solution is
simple. In planning a passage of the Rhine, LOUIS 
NAPOLEON proposes to
BRIDGET. That's all.

 * * * * *

A Roland for his Oliver.

OLIVER DYER, of the _Sun_, is the original "Dyer Necessity that
knows no law."

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

And now comes to light another divorce case in Chicago. Mrs. HUGG sues
Mr. HUGG for a decree _e vinculo matrimonii_. If there is anything in a
name, no one will gainsay the observation that if hugging has lost its
charm, Mrs. HUGG is the last person to make a fuss about it. She took
her HUGG with a full knowledge of the circumstances, and it is contrary
to public policy and good morals that her plea of "hugged out" should
enable her to obtain the remedy which she seeks.

In France they do not wait for the completion of the years of
adolescence to dub a scion of the royal family with the title of "man."
The Prince Imperial, prior to his departure for the wars, was presented
at Court as the "first gentleman" of France. For a youth of fourteen he
is said to have gone through the trying ceremonies with great credit
until directed by his mamma to dance with a venerable female of noble
blood, just as he was about to lend a beautiful American miss through
the mazes of a Schottische. The son of his father took one glance at the
ancient dame, and one at the lovely creature beside him, and then set up
a right royal blubber of disappointment.

"Remember, my son," said EUGENIE, "you are a man now, and men never
cry."

"Oh! mamma," sighed the afflicted Prince, "let me be a boy again, rather
than dance with _cette vieille_ yonder!"

Alas! for the ambition of monarchs, who put forward their beardless
progeny to do the deeds of men, and to suffer with men's fortitude, when
they are more fit to be puling in a nurse's arms, or unravelling silk
skeins for some maid of honor.

 * * * * *

THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacations.

It was hot when Mr. PUNCHINELLO started for Niagara. So hot that no
allusions to Fahrenheit would give an idea of the tremendous
preponderance of caloric in the atmosphere. The trip was full of
discomforts, and ther
e was great danger, at one time, that the train
would arrive at Niagara with a load of desiccated bodies. Of course the
water all boiled away in the engine-tanks, causing endless stoppages;
and of course the hot sun, pouring directly upon the roof of the cars,
caused the boards thereof to curl up and twist about in such fantastic
fashion, that they afforded no protection whatever to the passengers,
who were obliged to resort to sunshades and umbrellas, or get under the
seats. Added to this were the facts that the ice-water in the coolers
scalded the mouth; the brass-work on the seats blistered the hands; and
the empty stoves, almost red-hot from their exposure to the sun,
superheated the cars to a degree that was maddening. Added to these was
the fact that the intense heat expanded the rails until they were
several miles longer than usual, and thus the passengers suffered the
tortures of the transit for an increased length of time.

When, at last, Mr. P. was conveyed, in a stifling hack, (the fare had
risen, under the unusual circumstances, about one hundred and ten
degrees,) to a stifling little room under the hot roof of an hotel
exposed to the sun on every side, and had taken an extempore Russian
bath while changing his linen, and had partaken of a hot dinner, he
might have been excused for saying that he would like to cool off a
little.

Inquiring if there was any stream of water convenient, he was directed
to the river Niagara, which runs hard by the hotel.

Reaching the banks of the river, Mr. P. was very much pleased by the
prospect. There is a considerable depression in the bed of the stream at
one point, and the water runs over the rocks quite rapidly, carrying
with it such leaves, twigs, steamboats or other objects that may be
floating upon its surface.

Mr. P. immediately perceived the advantages of this condition of things
to a a gentleman suffering from the heat, and procuring a boat, he rowed
close to the foot of a cascade formed by the inclination in the bed of
the river, and throwing out his ancho
r, revelled in the luxury of the
cool spray and the refreshing sound of the rushing water.

[Illustration]

Does not this look cool?

When sufficiently refreshed, Mr. P. rowed to shore, feeling like another
man. With the greatest confidence in its merits, he recommends his plan
to those who may be suffering from the summer heat.

After breakfast the next morning, Mr. P. set out to see what he could
see. He did not engage the services of any hackman or professional
guide.

He had heard of their extortions, and determined to submit to nothing of
the kind. He intended relying entirely upon himself. He walked some
distance without meeting with any of the places of interest of which he
had heard so much.

Meeting at length with a respectable elderly gentleman, Mr. P. inquired
of him the way to the Cave of the Winds.

"The Cave of the Winds? Ah!" said this worthy person. "You turn to your
left here, sir--ah! and then you keep on for about--ah! half a mile, and
you will--ah! see a gate--ah! Behind that is a man and the cave--ah!"

Mr. P. thanked him and was proceeding on his way, when the worthy
citizen touched him on the arm, saying:

"Twenty-one dollars, if you please, sir."

"Twenty-one dev----developments!" cried Mr. P; "Why, what do you mean?"

"Information, sir; fifty cents a word; forty-two words; twenty-one
dollars."

It must not be supposed that Mr. P. submitted tamely to this outrage,
but after a long dispute, it was agreed to refer the matter to the
arbitration of three of the principal citizens. They promptly decided
that the charge was just and must be paid, but, owing to Mr. P.'s
earnest protestations, they agreed to throw out the "ahs," as being of
doubtful value as information. The sum thus saved to Mr. P. exactly paid
for drinks for the party.

Mr. P. now very sensibly concluded that it was about time to leave, if
his editors, his printers, and the employes in his pun-factory were to
expect any pay that week, and so he set out for home in the evening,
taking a shortcut by the way of Montreal.

He though
t that a day might be very profitably spent here, especially if
he could fall in with any of the French-Canadians, of whose
peculiarities he had heard so much. The study of human nature was always
Mr. P.'s particular forte.

On the morning of his arrival, Mr. P. met, in the dining-room of the
hotel, a gentleman who was unmistakably a Frenchman, and being in
Canada, was probably Canadian. As they were sitting together at the
table, Mr. P., having mentally rubbed up his knowledge of the French
language, addressed his companion thus:

"_Avez-vous le chapeau de mon frere?_"

The gentleman thus politely addressed, bowed, smiled, and after a little
hesitation answered:

"_Non, Monsieur; mais jai le fromage de votre soeur._"

"_Eh bien_" said Mr. P., as he scratched his head for a moment. "_Otez
vous vos souliers et vos bas?_"

The other answered promptly, "_Je n'ote ni les uns ni les autres._"

"_Votre pere,_" remarked Mr. P., "_a-t-il la chandelle de votre oncle?_"

His companion remained silent for a minute or two, and then he said:

"I forget the French of the answer to that, but I know the English of
it; it is 'no, sir, but he has the apples-of-the-ground-of-sugar of my
mother-in-law.'"

When Mr. P. discovered, after a little conversation in the vernacular,
that his companion was a New York dry-goods clerk, he gave up the study
of the French-Canadian character and went on with his breakfast.

When he went out into the streets to see the lions of the city he was
delighted to meet with some old friends. In company with them he visited
the Government House; the Cathedral; the Statue of NELSON; the VICTORIA
bridge; and everything else of interest in the place. But nothing was so
delightful to him as the faces of these old friends, from whom he had
been separated so long.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: When, at last, they left him, he returned sadly to New
York.]

 * * * * *

IDIOTIC ITEMS.

On Tuesday last one of the swans in Central Park laid a hen's egg.

A celebrated English professor of heraldry is now at Long Branch,

studying the crests of the waves.

Dr. LIVINGSTONE is no longer a white man. The large colored princess
whom he has been compelled to marry has beaten him black and blue.

Louis NAPOLEON'S first bulletin about the war was the bullet in the
pocket of NAP Junior.

An intelligent cordwainer of this city has invented a bathing shoe to
fit the under-toe at Long Branch.

The lock of the writing-desk made with his own hands by LOUIS NAPOLEON,
at Hoboken, has been presented to the Empress EUGENIE by a gentleman
residing at Union Hill, in exchange for a lock of her Majesty's hair.

Yesterday, while three eminent Wall street brokers--names, BROWN, JONES,
and ROBINSON--were engaged in watering stock, they fell in and were
drowned. Loss fully covered by insurance.

CARL FORMES is oddly reported to have lost his Bass voice through over
indulgence in lager-beer. He drank a barrel of beer a day, and his voice
has now become a barrel organ.

In France the _Marseillaise_ has become the national Him; while, in
Prussia, BISMARCK is decidedly the national Herr.

A French paper has an article respecting certain musical fishes found in
the Indian Seas, They ought to be engaged for PIKE'S Opera House.

The annual panther, weighing 8 ft., 9 inches, from snout to tip of tail,
and measuring 213 lbs., has just been killed in the Adirondacks by a
reporter.

 * * * * *

POLITICAL CLAPTRAP.

The sympathy exhibited by the _Sun_ reporters and editors for the
unhappy victim of Ogre Tammany is particularly touching.

Association with the Wickedest Man in New York, the Honorable JOHN
ALLEN, _protege_ of the Reverend OLIVER DYER, has evidently demoralized
the pure beings who control the immaculate sheet known as the _Sun_,
whose putrescent light "shines for all."

These panders to the depraved taste of a depraved portion of the
community, may exult in the spectacle presented in the City of New York
on Sunday, the 7th inst., but is it not a sorrowful thing in a so-called
Christian land to see a murderer borne with triumph to his grave, while
pseudo
 philanthropists deck his bier with flowers, and deliberately
charge a great political party with having hunted the wretched man to
his death?

Was there no nobler game worth the killing by Tammany? Was there not a
"stag of Ten" to be found, to be struck, if party necessities required
it? Would OAKEY HALL and PETER B. SWEENY put such a slight upon these
bastard allies of the O'BRIENS and MORRISSEYS whose columns are open to
the highest bidder, and whose lips reek venom while their hands are ever
ready to strike a victim in the back, as to pass them by while they were
on the war-path?

But hold--perhaps we have a clue to this singular conduct of the Tammany
warriors. They may have foreseen how apt the sweet people are to confer
immortality upon those whose death becomes them better than their life,
and therefore wisely forebore to disturb those blissful with murderers
and felons which seem to bind the Satellites of the _Sun_ and the
denizens of the Tombs together.

 * * * * *

SUMMER ON THE CATSKILLS,

BY REGALIA REYNA.

I.

 O thou Mount Katskill! whom I now survey
 In roseate brightness of the new-born day,
 To thee my thankfulness I would convey,
 For self and crowd;
 Who from the glare and hum of hot
 Financial lives,
 Have sought repose upon thy wondrous crest, and
 Brought our wives--
 I gaze upon thy placid brow, where storms do
 Reckless rage,
 Forgetful of the storms of life, and Mister
 BEACH's stage.

II.

 I gaze upon thy beauteous vistas
 Far and wide;
 I see the day-break beautifully paint thy
 Rugged side:
 I see AURORA show the panorama
 Night did hide:
 I see the lazy Hudson grad-u-
 Ally glide,
 Reluctant to abandon thee, and seek
 The salt sea tide.
 I think almost excusingly of that tough
 Two dollar ride;
 And only for my wallet's sake, I longer
 Would abide.

III.

 Nature has kindly gifted thee with meadow,
 Lake and dell,
 And for the Falls of Kauterskill I know no
 Parallel:
 Humanity has crowned thee with this festive
 Gay Hotel,
 Where Fame and Fashion eager wait to hear
 Thy dinner bell
:
 O Mount! O view! thy beauties now I can no
 Longer tell,
 For, after breakfast, I must say--O Katskill!
 Fare thee well!
 And leave thee--in one of those abominable stages,
 "which I wish it"
 Was in H------eaven!

 * * * * *

Extraordinary Ledger-demain.

The Soldiers' Monument at Cambridge is the result of the combined
efforts of CYRUS and DARIUS COBB, whereas, SYLVANUS, alone and
unassisted, is able to raise, every week, a tall column on the surface
of the _N.Y. Ledger._

 * * * * *

Censor of the Press.

The unfortunate official who sought reliable information, the other day,
respecting the age and immense property possessions of PUNCHINELLO, on
comparing his notes subsequently, remarked to a friend that he felt as
if he had temporarily lost his Census.

 * * * * *

Appropriate.

DANA, of the _Sun_, is about to open an undertaker's establishment for
the arrangement of murderer's obsequies. Motto--"Pinking done here."

 * * * * *

The Wrong Mouth.

A LITTLE Fourth-of-Julyer in Pittsburgh, going along with his mouth
open, (after the manner of boys), caught a fire-cracker therein, just as
the cracker was going off. He had often had crackers in his mouth, but
preceding ones had proved nourishing and non-explosive; whereas, this
cracker was quite the reverse. As a consequence, the boy has lost his
voice, but (what is curious, certainly,) is otherwise all sound.

Were we certain that heaving a fire-cracker into an open mouth would
always produce such a result, we should certainly hire some one to shut
up the noisier of our public nuisances--such as G.F. TRAIN, and several
members of Congress. This could be easily done, as their mouths are
always open, and usually are very large ones. We invite proposals from
boys, relating to next season's operations.

 * * * * *

Theft Extraordinary.

A weekly journal gravely informs a correspondent that "the line, 'A
thing of beauty is a joy forever,' occurs in TUPPER's _Proverbial
Philosophy_."

Shades of the poets! More than fifty years ago, JOHN KEATS commenced a
poem calle
d "Endymion," with that very line. To think that he should
have gone and borrowed it from TUPPER!

 * * * * *

Politician's Plant.

See WEED.

 * * * * *

[Illustration:

THE LATEST MELODRAMATIC DODGE OF A PLAYED-OUT POLITICIAN.

PROMPTER DANA, OF THE "SUN," GIVES THE CUE TO A _REAL_ SKELETON.]

 * * * * *

Conversion of the "Sun."

It was said of Bishop COLENSO that he "undertook to convert a Zulu
Kaffir, but the Z. K. converted him."

Such a circumstance may be fallen upon without going so far as Africa to
seek for it. JOHN ALLEN, of Water Street, was, once upon a time, the
Zulu Kaffir of DANA of the _Sun_ and his fascinating Satellite, OLIVER
DYER.

The ways of JOHN ALLEN were very wicked when these pious
missionaries threw themselves upon his trail, and tried to convert him.
Perhaps the reformatory effort was well meant; but, alas! for the
feebleness of all human arrangements--JOHN ALLEN remains the reprobate
he was, while he to his flock has brought DANA, the _Sun_ man, and DYER,
the Satellite man, converts to the Allenian theory that money made from
dirt is the only healthful stimulant to virtuous toil.

And so it was that DANA the devout, and DYER the saintly, went forth to
convert the Zulu Kaffir of Water Street, and the Z. F. converted them.

 * * * * *

Ready for Another Heat.

The horses of PHOEBUS.

 * * * * *

A Royal Game.

The ex-queen of Spain fears that ALFONSO will be "euchred." She remarked
to him recently, Play you're king.

 * * * * *

CONTEMPORARY SENTIMENTS,

On the Great War Question.

 "WILLIAM'S my man!" cries one enthusiast,--
 "He'll be in Paris, _sure_, within ten days!"
 "'Paris' your Granny!" cries one just as fast;
 "'Ere that, man! you'll see Berlin in a blaze!"

 "France has the finest soldiers ever seen!"
 Says one who knows; "they never can be beat!"
 One who knows also, says, "the French are green!
 Their only real strength is in their fleet!"

 "Oh, hang their fleet!" exclaims another man;
 "It's useless now,--it has no work to do!
 But let France use her navy all she can,
 Y
ou'll see if Prussia doesn't put her through!"

 "Prussia ain't able!" cries an eager one:
 "Let her drink all the lager in her shops,
 She'll find the little job is not yet done,
 For all there's such enormous strength in hops!"

 "And if there's any danger comes to France,"
 Remarks the seventh man, "_Ireland_ will arise!"
 "And if she does, old England will advance!"
 The eighth (an Englishman,) with pride replies.

 And so they have it hot, for half a day,--
 First A., then B., then C. and D. at once,
 And thus the precious moments roll away,
 And none can tell who is the greatest dunce.

 * * * * *

The Aldermen to their Dinner.

Gorge us!

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE OVATION OF MURDER.

_The Devil, (soliloquizing.)_ "NEW YORK'S THE PLACE FOR ME! THIS IS WHAT
I CALL _REAL_ ENJOYMENT--A MURDERER'S FUNERAL PROCESSION GRANDER FAR
THAN THAT OF ANY GREAT AND GOOD CITIZEN, AND THIS IN A CITY OF
SUNDAY-SCHOOLS AND CHURCHES!". _(The Devil's Walk: Sunday, August 7,
1870.)_]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN AT THE FEMALE CONVENTION.

The Cardiff Giant and other Fossils at Saratoga.

 "Duble, duble, heaps of truble,
 Wimmen's rites will bust the bubble."

 SHAKESPEAR. (WM.)

The wolves in sheeps clothin' convenshed agin for an annual rippin' up
of things, at Saratogy.

The undersined, in custody of the undersined's wife, who is a
Hicockalormn of the Skeensboro Sore-eye-sisses, was present at the
singin' of the above selection from the defunct bard.

Male and femail wimmen was there dressed emblamatical of their callin'.

 "Black folks and white
 With red hair and gray,
 Mingled for a fite
 In Sar-a-to-ga." SHAKESPEAR & GREEN.

SOOZAN B. ANTHENY was scrumpshusly ragged out in broad-cloth.

A turkish towellin' vest-pattent lether butes and silk hat, completed
her _Toot in cymbals_.

ERNEST L. ROZE wore a nobby scotch cassimer soot. She carried a cane and
wore her hair parted in the middle.

Mrs. RUBE PHENTON--MARTHY WRITE--O'LIMPING BROWN--SARY FILLEO--Mrs.
DEXTER NOLTON--LILLY DEVERS BLAKE--SARY HALLEK--FEBEE CAREY, and othe
r
prominent Fireside agitaters and Herthstun depopulaters, were becominly
araid, and did gustise to their tailors.

PHREDRICK DOUGLIS, a firey broonet from Rochester, looked bewitchin' in
a _more anteek_ silk dress.

A camels hair overskirt hung grasefully over his loins. Peepin' out from
beneath his robes, was a delicate little foot, encased in a flesh
cullered pair of No. 11 buckskin mocasins.

His hair was done up in a 2 bushel waterfall, and was frizzled all over,
_a lar Ethiope_.

EDWIN A. STUDWELL, of Brooklyn, looked stunnin' in a granny Dean walkin'
dress and red cotton umbreller.

His back hair was tempestously arranged.

A couple of bolony sassiges, in a hily chawed up state, hung pendent
from the aft of his gorgeous waterfall, and dangled to his heels, _a lar
cheapee John_,

When approached by that great captivater of susseptible hearts (?)
SOOZAN B. ANTHENY, ED blushed like a red-headed woodpecker, and hid his
modesty behind a $4.00 palm leaf fan.

STEVE GRISWOLD, DAN KETCHAM and a few other manikins, was dressed
accordin' to the prevailin' fashions of the feminin sects.

A good cleen shave would have completed their disgize, and folks
woulden't have had a suspicion but what they was what they was actin' to
be.

I was shocked to hear one audacious retch remark:

"Them chaps look like a lot of hen-peckt broken furniture."

 "Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites
 And show the best of femail spites,
 So teach that horrid critter, man,
 We'll swaller him hul, when ere we can." 1ST WITCH.

SOOZAN B. was elected chairman.

On takin' her seat she said:

"My femail friends by birth, and my femail friends by brevet;"

"We have convenshed for the purpuss of having our rites redressed----"

A voice: "Haden't you better go home and redress yourselves first?"

The whole convention was onto their feet in a second, while the chairman
fell into her seet and regained her composure, by takin' a good helthy
pinch of scotch snuff.

Quiet bein' restored, a Mrs. GAGE riz to her feet, and, removin' a chew
of tobacker from
 her mouth, read the follerin' resolutions:

Whereas: 2 National Wimmen's Suffrage Circus are industrously plyin'
their vocation.

Whereas: A effort is afoot to jine 'em together under the same tent.

Now be it resolved: We don't perceeve it in them sunbeams. The New York
State Suffrage Circus is able to paddle her own stone bote. Bosting to
the contrary not-with-out-standin'-up.

Resolved finally: We is the original JACOBS, and if Bosting don't like
the cut of our Jib, let her lump it.

(Grate applaws.)

A strange lookin' woman, who wore a swaller tail cote, red the follerin
resolutions:

Whereas: Woman has a spear, it hain't to cook vittles--darn
stockin's--tend baby and try to make her husbin happy.

Whereas: Man is a brute--woman an angle. Man can vote--woman can't.

Resolved: That as long as man won't give us the ballit, that after Jan.,
1871, every mail brat that comes squawkin' into the world, be smothered
the minnit he is borned.

Resolved: That when the mail rase is extinguished, the superior critter,
woman, take peaceable possession of the ballit box.

These resolutions was vociferously cheered, Mrs. GREEN becomin' so
exsited that she whacked me over the head with her parasol in a most
ongentlemanly manner.

(N.B.--I would heer state that I'me a Resistanter agin femail suffrage.

Give woman the 16th Commendment and we can cry "peece" ontil our
wind-pipes are collored, but not a darned bit of peece will we git,
except occashunly a peece is nockt off of our snoot, for refusin' to get
up early Monday mornin's to do the washin'.)

At the above juncture of the proceedin's, the Cardiff Jiant, who is
spendin' the summer at this selebrated waterin' place, entered the room.

The old feller had heard of this grate Fossil Convenshun.

As the distinguished fraud entered the room, cheers filled the air.

Members in exstasy jumped up onto the benches--stood on their
heads--threw their false teeth all about the floor, and acted like a lot
of Rocky Mountain injuns, chock full of New England rum.

Silents was restored b
y tossin' a live man to the exsited Amazons, whom
they tore to peeces, partly satisfyin' their cravin' appetites.

Old GIPSUM then _oratoricised_ as viz.:

"Feller Fossils: This is indeed the most momentous event I've attended
since I left Onondagar.

"When COTTON MATHER came over in the Grate Eastern, he sent out a dove to
see if the Pilgrims, would allow her to pick any flowers off of Plymouth
Rock.

"What was the result of that experiment?

"Why, the dove coulden't find any rest for the soul of her shoo; for
Plymouth Rocks were thicker than Cardiff Jiants. That base man, BARNUM,
had taken plaster casts of the old rock, and there wasen't a town along
the coast, but what had its 'original Plymouth Rock.'

"The dove, not bein' a good judge of genuine stuns, made her "Shoo fly"
back to the old ark, and told her tail. Therefore, I ask as a personal
favor, seein' that BARNUM sarved me same's he did old Plymouth Rock,
that when this august assemblage of Fossilized human bein's comes down
onto the mail portion of the U. States, old P.T. be turned over to us.
I'le make him think he's got straddle his wooly hoss, and an army of
mermades was after him with red hot pitchforks.

"Grant me this favor, and when the fite of the Amazons begins, you can
count on me to hold your bonnets."

Amid tremenjus applaus old Fort Dodger squatted.

Letters were then read from the Cohoes Mastodon--ARTEMAS WARD'S wax
figgers--the wooly hoss--a miselaneous lot of Egipshun Mummies, and
THEODOR TILTIN--regrettin' their inability to attend the Fossil
Convention.

HORRIS GREELY was then anathemized, BEN BUTLER--Senator WILSON--and GEO.
FRANCIS TRAIN Ulogized.

Resolutions were offered that Congressman MORRISEY be pulverized, by
some talented femail startin' a opposition club house, employin' none
but Tigers of the gentle sects.

After a few more summer complaint speeches agin that Horrible!
Bloodthirsty! 2 legged Monkster, MAN!! the annual Hen convention of
Antideluvian Fossils tide up their bonnet strings--took their husbans
under their off arm
--walked down to Congress Spring.

The witches who dipp up the mineral fluid danced about the cauldron,
while the President of the company spyin' the Femails approachin'
remarked:

 "By the prickin' of my thumb
 Somethin' wicked this way comes."

The above, Friend PUNCHINELLO, was as seen by,

Ewers faithfully,

HIRAM GREEN,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece_.

 * * * * *

Birds of Passage.

The African ostrich is sometimes trained to carry passengers on his
back, but the player of "our national game" is often seen "going out on
a Foul."

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A VERY NECESSARY PRECAUTION.]

 * * * * *

BLOCKS AND BLOCKHEADS.

Mr. Punchinello: As the acknowledged redresser of American wrongs and
the enemy of public nuisances, we beg your attention to a vice which
seems to be upon the increase, and which grows in strength with what it
feeds upon. As the vice in question appears to be upon the increase, and
to fascinate its victims by the allurements of the excitement, we
consider it worthy of PUNCHINELLO'S lance, or, in other words, of being
transfixed upon PUNCHINELLO'S quill.

We refer to the loafing which invariably takes place upon the occasion
of the relaying of the wooden pavement. I say wooden more particularly,
inasmuch as new fangled varieties of pavement, such as Concrete,
Nicholson, etc., although they have their day, cannot be said to compete
for a moment in public regard with the good old fashioned kind first
described.

Of all the causes that arrest public attention, surely this laying of
wooden pavement is the most enduring and effectual.

People of every grade and degree make a dead halt as they approach this
centre of interest, and at once settle down for a prolonged inspection
of the works before them. It is true that everybody has seen the same
thing one hundred and fifty times, but this description of indulgence
appears to grow by what it feeds upon, and the fascinated victim watches
the operation of the workers with a gratification which knows no
abatement. The usual formula gone through upon th
ese occasions is as
follows:

Citizen approaches the scene of interest, and sees crowds of spectators
upon each side; he glances at the workmen, and, after taking stock of
both them and the overseer, proceeds to read the opinion of his fellows
in their faces, after which he settles down in right earnest with his
hands in his pockets for a prolonged stare. This latter may continue for
periods varying from ten minutes to an hour and three quarters,
according to inclination or opportunity.

If the spectator is a man of business, it is just possible that he may
content himself with measuring the size of the blocks with his eye, and
then pass on, content to know that he, as one out of many taxpayers, is
getting the value of what they are called on to pay for. But with the
mass of the onlookers, the pouring of the hot pitch into the gravelled
interstices is watched with a satisfaction ever new, like that bestowed
in the pantomime upon the application by the clown of the red-hot poker.

There is also the pleasure of seeing others at hard work, and the
indulgence of everybody's belief (which is common to all present,) that
he or she could suggest an improvement upon the work proceeding, and the
manner of doing it. Then they look at each other once more and depart
contented.

Upon a moderate calculation, the amount of time devoted by human beings
to this amusing study, in the City of New York, amounts to 2,450,000
hours per annum.

 * * * * *

ENGLAND'S QUANDARY.

Conjecture and expectancy, O PUNCHINELLO! have been the order of the day
in this European turmoil, with regard to the position of what are called
neutral Powers. People have been looking at England with much curiosity
to see what she really does intend. With the facilities which our
_special wire_ affords, I am enabled to report a highly interesting
soliloquy delivered by the Rt. Hon. W. E. GLADSTONE, to his bed-post, at
his home in Spring Gardens, London, after a hot night's debate at St.
STEPHEN'S. Our reporter concealed himself in the key-hole and took
_verba
tim_ notes. As in the case of the speeches delivered by the rival
monarchs to their armies, which you published a week in advance of the
speeches themselves, the following can be relied on:

"I'm tired of answering questions. Let me think awhile. Is war the only
alternative? They blame me for not talking out. Fools, they don't know
where they stand. At home and abroad, difficulty. Our workmen
emigrating; the Irish irreconcilable, (curse that word!) nothing
cheerful that side.

"France can rock _her_ irreconcilables to sleep to the war lullaby of
that man we have so trusted only to betray us; _our_ irreconcilables
only wait for war to side with our enemy. Prussia, grasping bull-dog as
she is, makes capital out of it, and calls us to her side, while our
stupid people burn with a Prussian fever, which may turn to a plague
to-morrow.

"Is the Prussian whom we have helped to humble to be our only ally? Then
must we write ourselves down asses in Constantinople.

"If we had some other head besides weather-cock expediency. France has
an Emperor, Prussia a King to lead them; we have a Queen who takes walks
in the Isle of Wight; and her son--bah! a _roue_ about town. Their
marriage alliances are drag-chains, not bonds of love. Denmark does not
forget our treachery in '65. Holland is afraid of France. We are safe
from America yet. They are too much afraid of the German vote, thank
Heaven, to side with France, but "Alabama" is her watchword, and she
only waits to strangle us. LAFAYETTE and the Hessians are only memories,
they have no votes. Ah! it was a mistake to sympathize with the South.

"Our statesmen--Heaven save the mark!--are our worst enemies. D'ISRAELI,
the Jew, doubles our difficulty by showing our weakness. He would play
the part of PITT without his brains or his chances. Then we led, now we
are dragged at the tail. We may sign treaties, but we cannot write them.
BRIGHT would be friendly with both; GRANVILLE with neither, and thus
each is offended. It is ridiculous, and the only course left is to
bluster about Be
lgium.

"It must be the late dinner. There are all sorts of threatening shadows
around, and but one light; that is a war flame. Let me sleep. To-morrow
the gaping thousands will ask a sign. It may come, but it shall be
hoisted on the Rhine, and, helpless tide waiters, we cannot tell from
which side it shall come. Ah! 'Uneasy sits the man on the ministerial
bench,' as SHAKESPEARE would say to-day, for the crown that he spoke of
is an ornament in the tower."

REPORTER

 * * * * *

Magnetic

Polish soldiers should choose the needle gun. The needle is always
true to the Pole.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A CAPITAL HINT FOR OUR STATIONARY STREET MUSICIANS, IF
THEY WANT TO MAKE MONEY. ]

 * * * * *

THE LEAVEN OF LEAVENWORTH.

The great West has long been famous for the loose, untrammelled freedom
with which its inhabitants treat everything and everybody. Breadth, no
less than length, is a striking feature of Western settlements, and that
this element is conspicuous in the journalism of those singular abodes,
no less than in the social life of their inhabitants, generally, is
evidenced in the following advertisement cut from "_The Times_"--a paper
published at Leavenworth, Kansas:

"NOTICE TO DRIVERS OF FAST STOCK.--Hold your horses and do not drive so
fast. All gay and festive cusses caught driving faster than ordinary
gait in the city, will be brought before Judge Vaughan, for instance--the
fine is $20.

H. A. ROBERTSON, City Marshal."

The City Marshal of Leavenworth is clearly a pot-companion of the first
(whiskey and) water. He declines to address his fellow-citizens in the
commonplace terms usually recognised in more prosaic communities. To
adopt his own style of phraseology, ROBERTSON is clearly a "gay and
festive cuss." He is a specimen brick from Kansas, and doubtless always
carries one in his hat. The expression "ordinary gait," as applied to
driving in Kansas, where everybody owns "fast stock," is rather
equivocal in these quieter latitudes to be sure, but we may guess that,
at Leavenworth, a man who rides or
 drives at a pace of twenty miles an
hour, is liable, "for instance," to a fine of $20, or just one dollar
per mile. Kansas maybe a very nice place to live in, for some people,
but we would hardly recommend Mr. ROBERT BONNER to emigrate thither, and
so risk the probability of being advertised as a "gay and festive cuss."

 * * * * *

SHIP AHOY!

Of all public performers, there are none who "draw" better than the
gymnasts who risk their necks by attempting hazardous feats. The fool
who attaches himself by the heels to the car of an ascending balloon is
sure to have thousands of feeble-minded females waving handkerchiefs at
him. BLONDIN, the great French tomfool, brought more people to Niagara
Falls to see him, possibly, add a new Fall to the prospect, than ever
the Falls themselves did. And when another donkey announces that he is
going to stand upon his head on the point of a church spire, that church
is sure to be thronged--outside. These performances, and all of their
sort, should be made punishable, and will probably be so when a hundred
or two performers shall have been killed, in addition to those who have
already suffered.

Not nearly so exciting as performances of the kind referred to, though,
perhaps, quite as rash, are the ocean voyages occasionally essayed by
tiny, toy ships. One of these--the _Red, White and Blue_--is announced
as about to start upon a "voyage round the world." We wish her our best
wishes, and hope she may get round in the roundest way and time. One of
her first stopping places, though, as we see, is Martha's Vineyard. Our
advice to the skipper of the toy ship, is to go no further than that
delightful haven of rest. MARTHA. will cherish her as a chimney
ornament, or give her to her kids to play with--and nobody will be hurt.

 * * * * *

Two Renderings.

_Finis coronat opus:_--The end crowns the work.

_Finis coroner opus:_--There is plenty of work for the Coroner, but
the "end" does not always appear to be gained.

All of which is respectfully submitted to the investigators of murder

in this city.

 * * * * *

The Modern Monks of La Trappe.

The Coroner, the Assistant District-Attorney, and certain other
officials who have been trying the "trap" game on the witnesses examined
in the NATHAN murder case.

 * * * * *

Results of Silver Stock.

1. The dream is ore.

2. Never mined.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: PUNCHINELLO CORRESPONDENCE. ]

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

_Englishman, London._--You have lost your wager. Ohio is not the capital
of Indiana.

_Stranger, New York City._--When you get lost in our streets and do not
know where you are, it is a good plan to seek information from a
policeman. If he does not know where you are, come directly to the
office of PUNCHINELLO.

_Antiquary._--"The Last of the Barons" was a term applied to an
implement used by the ancient shoemakers. The pedal members of the old
English barons were of a peculiar aristocratic conformation, and lasts
were made expressly for them. This is a curious fact not generally
known.

_Ploughboy_ finds the following remark in Mr. GREELEY'S thirtieth What,
and asks explanation.

"So with regard to Carrots. I have never achieved success in growing
these nor Beets."

We infer that the meaning is, With regard to carrots, sow them. "These
nor Beets" are probably a new variety. They may have come from Norfolk,
but more "presumably" they were found in Alaska.

_Metaphysician, Cloudland._--Your article on the "Psychical Basis of
Objective Existence" is excellent. Look out for it in the "Juvenile
Department" of our Christmas number.

_Grammarian._--The expression "We ain't got none" is manifestly
incorrect. It has two negatives. "We ain't got any" is by far more
elegant.

_Wager_ says that A. made a bet with B. that he could cut a dime in two
at one stroke of his pen-knife, C. to hold the stakes. A. took a
ten-cent "scrip" and chopped it in two with his blade. Meantime C.
walked away with the stake money. Who won? _Answer._--The bet is off. C.
is also off, but no better, and neither A. or B. is any better off.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: N
OTES ON THE FERRY.

_Gushington, (with the pipe.)_ "SHE SMILED ON ONE OF US, I'LL SWEAR."

_Spindle_. "PERHAPS; BUT WHAT'S A SMILE? A POSITIVE NOD FOR ME, OR
NOTHING!"]

 * * * * *

AERATED VERBIAGE.

An Every-day Romance.

CHAPTER I.

In a room in a palatial tenement house in Avenue D, stood GILBERT
FERNANDE FROU FROU SNOGGS. G.F.F.F.S. was rampant.

"Why?" you say.

Gentle reader, hurry me not. Let the tale wag on. She was talking to her
mamma.

"Now," said G.F.F.F.S., "I prognosticated that my maternal relative
would become oblivions of my reiterated solicitations to perambulate the
Avenue, and make the acquisition of four yards of cerulean hued ribbon,"
and she stamped her tiny number eights on the floor.

You will notice that, even in her anger, she did not forget her English.

"You can purchase it on the morrow," replied her mamma.

"I will not remain acquiescent. I will promenade upon my profluence to
Sixth Avenue, and purchase the ceruleous ribbon immediately," said
G.F.F.F.S., putting on her waterproof and sun-bonnet.

Her mother pointed to the paternal turnip, which hung over the mantel,
and showed her that old Time was "doing stunts" at 10-1/2.

But G.F.F.F.S. was obstinate. She put on her chignon, her curls, her
breast elevator, her bustle, her high-heeled shoes, a little rouge, a
little whiting and a bit of court-plaster, and sallied forth, down the
dumb-waiter to the cellar, and thence, through the ash-hole, to the
street.

CHAPTER II.

The deed was done!!! The purchase was made find G.F.F.F.S. walked
towards her palatial paternal mansion. She felt slightly timid, for, as
she looked at the heavens, she saw that ARCTURUS, who had been playing
tag with CASTOR and POLLUX all the evening, had reached hunk, the Great
Bear. From the astronomical knowledge which she had acquired at the
Vavasour Female Academy, she knew that the paternal turnip now pointed
to the witching hour of 11-1/2.

Suddenly she found herself surrounded by a party of bandits, (she
thought she was in Greece, but she was only in the 19t
h Ward.)

They seized her.

"Not a word," said the leader. "Your money or your life."

Now G.F.F.F.S. had lots of life and very little money, so she could
hardly determine whether to give up some of her life or all of her
money.

"Illustrious banditti," said she, "the auriferous contents of my
reticulated depository are notable for minuteness. Be conservators of my
pullulating existence."

"I say, TOM," said the leader, "what's her little game?"

"It sounds like Irish," said TOM.

"Hand over your stamps," said the leader.

G.F.F.F.S. slowly drew out her net purse, when suddenly the robbers
fled. G.F.F.F.S. felt that her hero had come, and, like all the
ARAMINTAS in the novels, she fainted and was caught in the arms of--

CHAPTER III.

The author tried to persuade the editor to allow him to write "to be
continued" after the last thrilling chapter, but the editor was
inexorable, hence this chapter, "in the arms of"--a little red-headed
policeman.

G.F.F.F.S. smiled gently, but, as soon as she had opened her eyes, and
had cast them on the red head, freckled face, pug-nose, and little eyes
of MIKE MCFLYNN, she sprang to her feet. It was better than forty
gallons of hartshorn. She had wasted a faint.

"_Perdidi animi deliquium_," said she.

"Mother of MOSES, but you was heavy!" said MCFLYNN.

But she did not wait, and a pair of number eight shoes might have been
seen by an inquisitive reporter, cutting around the corners and stamping
up seven flights of stairs.

MORAL.

When the paternal turnip solemnly points to 10-1/2, G.F.F.F.S. puts her
number eights on the mantel, looks reflectively at a sore-eyed kitten,
and falls into polysyllables.

 * * * * *

HOMODEIFICATION.

Late advices from China convey the intelligence that the
American-Chinese General WARD, who died in the service of the Celestial
empire, has been postmortuarily brevetted to the rank of a "major god,"
and is now regularly worshipped as such by JOHN PIGTAIL.

Possibly the antithesis to this may turn up on the cards, here. In the
course of events the bro
nze idol to which our PHILLIPSES and SUMNERS
used to bend the knee, has been prostrated from his pedestal by the
Fifteenth Amendment. Coolie labor, with its possible abuses, may engage
the attention of the philanthropists, next, and we may yet behold JOHN
PIGTAIL on a pedestal, in the character of an American "major god."

 * * * * *

"LUCUS A NON," ETC.

In the culinary department of a newspaper we find a recipe for making
"bird's nest pudding," which would surely make the pigtail of a JOHN
Chinaman stick straight up on end. The component parts of the pudding
are apples, sugar, milk, five eggs, and vanilla. Perhaps the inventor of
the pudding once found a bird's nest with five eggs in it, and has thus
essayed to immortalize the interesting fact.

 * * * * *

Bullet Proof.

The fact of the young Prince Imperial having picked up a bullet on the
field of Saarbruck is significant It proves that, like a true BONAPARTE,
he is prompt to take the Lead.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | HOUSEKEEPING GOODS. |
 | |
 | A Special Lot of IRISH DAMASK TABLE |
 | CLOTHS in 8-4 and 8-4-4, 10-4 from $2 |
 | and $2.50 and upwards |
 | |
 | 5-8 DAMASK NAPKINS, |
 | $1 per doz. upward. |
 | |
 | TABLE DAMASK, |
 | 40c. per yard and upward. |
 | |
 | HUCKABUCK TOWELS, |
 | $1.50 per doz. and upward. |
 | |
 | PILLOW LINEN, |
 | 40-inch wide. 30c. per yard. |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETINGS, |
 | 2 yards wide. 60c. per yard. |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETINGS, |
 | 2-1/4 yard wide, 70c. per yard. |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETINGS, |
 | 2-1/2 yards wide, 90c. per yard. |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETINGS, |
 | 2-3/4 yards wide, $1 per yard. |
 | |
 | A Job Lot of READY-MADE, LINEN SHEETS, |
 | from $2.50 per pair and upward. |
 | |
 | Fine yard-wide IRISH LINEN, |
 | suitable for Ladies' wear, 35c. |
 | |
 | Extra Heavy IRISH LINEN |
 | for Gentlemen's wear, 40c. |
 | |
 | Further Reductions In |
 | SUMMER QUILTS and BLANKETS. |
 | |
 | ALL WOOL WHITE FLANNELS, |
 | 25c. per yard. |
 | |
 | A new all
 wool |
 | GRAY FLANNEL for LADIES' OVERSKIRTS, |
 | 40c. per yard. |
 | |
 | TWEEDS |
 | for Bathing Suits, 30c. per yard. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Call special attention to their large and well |
 | selected stock of |
 | |
 | Domestic Cotton Goods, |
 | |
 | Consisting of |
 | |
 | BLEACHED AND BROWN |
 | |
 | Shirtings and Sheetings |
 | |
 | IN ALL THE CHOICE BRANDS; |
 | |
 | ALSO |
 | |
 | Tickings, Denims, |
 | |
 | ETC., ETC., AT |
 | |
 | EXTREMELY LOW PRICES. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & CO. |
 | |
 | ARE OFFERING |
 | |
 | IRISH AND FRENCH POPLINS |
 | |
 | At very Low Prices. |
 | |
 | MERINO AND EMPRESS CLOTHS |
 | |
 | IN CHOICE |
 | |
 | FALL AND WINTER COLORS, |
 | |
 | 75c. and upward. |
 | |
 | ALL WOOL SERGES |
 | |
 | 75c. and $1 per yard, worth $1.50 and $1.75 |
 | |
 | TARTAN PLAIDS, |
 | |
 | IN GREAT VARIETY, |
 | |
 | From 35c. and upward. |
 | |
 | WINSEYS, |
 | |
 | From 35 to 40 cents per yard. |
 | |
 | ROUBAIX POPLINS, |
 | |
 | From 25 to 40 cents per yard. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of the kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | " " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00 |
 | Single copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follo
ws: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 by 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-5/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens; |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | Pointer and Quail; Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; The Unconscious Sleeper; The Two |
 | Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-3/4. |
 | Spring; Summer: Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. 11 x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13x18. |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9-1/8 x 4-1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and Six American Landscapes. |
 | (A set.) 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 | Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per ye
ar, or five cents per quarter, in |
 | advance; the CHROMOS will be mailed free on receipt of |
 | money. |
 | |
 | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be |
 | given. For special terms address the Company. |
 | |
 | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of |
 | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A |
 | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or |
 | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: IMITATION THE SINCEREST FLATTERY.

_Regular Customer._ "ALONZO, BRING ME SOME BEANS AND TOMAYTESES."

_Waiter._ "YES'M. "WILL YOU HAVE 'EM ON ONE PLATE OR ON TWO PLATESES?"]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "The Printing House of the United States." |
 | |
 | GEO. F. NESBITT & CO., |
 | |
 | General JOB PRINTERS, |
 | BLANK BOOK Manufacturers, |
 | STATIONERS. Wholesale and Retail. |
 | LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers. |
 | COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers, |
 | ENVELOPE Manufacturers, |
 | FINE CUT and COLOR Printers. |
 | |
 | 163, 165, 167, and 169 PEARL ST., |
 | 73, 75, 77, and 79 FINE ST., New York. |
 | |
 | ADVANTAGES.--All at the same premises, and under |
 | immediate supervision of the proprietors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Tourists and Pleasure Travelers |
 | |
 | will be glad to learn that that the Erie Railway Company has |
 | prepared |
 | |
 | COMBINATION EXCURSION or Round Trip Tickets, |
 | |
 | Valid during the entire season, and embracing |
 | Ithaca--headwaters of Cayuga Lake--Niagara Falls, Lake |
 | Ontario, the River St. Lawrence, Montreal, Quebec, Lake |
 | Champlain, Lake George, Saratoga, the White Mountains, and |
 | all principal points of interest in Northern New York, the |
 | Canadas, and New England. Also similar
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Jonathan Ingram and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE STRAND MAGAZINE

_An Illustrated Monthly_

EDITED BY GEORGE NEWNES

Vol. VII., Issue 37. January, 1894.

 * * * * *

_Contents._

Stories from the Diary of a Doctor.
 By the Authors of "The Medicine Lady."
 VII.--The Horror of Studley Grange.

The Queen of Holland.
 By Mary Spencer-Warren.

Zig-Zags at the Zoo.
 By A. G. Morrison.
 XIX.--Zig-Zag Batrachian.

The Helmet.
 From the French of Ferdinand Beissier.

The Music of Nature.
 By T. Camden Pratt.
 Part II.

Portraits of Celebrities at Different Times of Their Lives.
 Sir Henry Loch.
 Madame Belle Cole.
 The Lord Bishop of Peterborough.
 Lord Wantage.
 Sir Richard Temple, M.P.

A Terrible New Year's Eve.
 By Kathleen Huddleston.

Personal Reminiscences of Sir Andrew Clark.
 By E. H. Pitcairn.

Beauties:
 XIII.--Children.

The Signatures of Charles Dickens (with Portraits).
 By J. Holt Schooling.

The Mirror.
 From the French of George Japy.

Handcuffs.
 By Inspector Moser.

The Family Name.
 From the French of Henri Malin.

The Queer Side of Things--
 Among the Freaks.--Major Microbe.
 Lamps of all Kinds and Times.
 The Two Styles.

 * * * * *

_Stories from the Diary of a Doctor._

_By the Authors of "THE MEDICINE LADY."_

VII.--THE HORROR OF STUDLEY GRANGE.

[Illustration: "THE HORROR OF STUDLEY GRANGE."]

I was in my consulting-room one morning, and had just said good-bye to
the last of my patients, when my servant came in and told me that a lady
had called who pressed very earnestly for an interview with me.

"I told her that you were just going out, sir," said the man, "and she
saw the carriage at the door; but she begged to see you, if only for two
minutes. This is her card."

I read the words, "Lady Studley."

"Show her in," I said, hastily, and the next moment a tall,
slightly-made, fair-haired girl entered the room.

She looked very young, scarcely more than twenty, and I could hardly
believe that she was, what her card indicated, a married woman.

The colour rushed into her cheeks as s
he held out her hand to me. I
motioned her to a chair, and then asked her what I could do for her.

"Oh, you can help me," she said, clasping her hands and speaking in a
slightly theatrical manner. "My husband, Sir Henry Studley, is very
unwell, and I want you to come to see him--can you?--will you?"

"With pleasure," I replied. "Where do you live?"

"At Studley Grange, in Wiltshire. Don't you know our place?"

"I daresay I ought to know it," I replied, "although at the present
moment I can't recall the name. You want me to come to see your husband.
I presume you wish me to have a consultation with his medical
attendant?"

"No, no, not at all. The fact is, Sir Henry has not got a medical
attendant. He dislikes doctors, and won't see one. I want you to come
and stay with us for a week or so. I have heard of you through mutual
friends--the Onslows. I know you can effect remarkable cures, and you
have a great deal of tact. But you can't possibly do anything for my
husband unless you are willing to stay in the house and to notice his
symptoms."

[Illustration: "LADY STUDLEY SPOKE WITH GREAT EMPHASIS."]

Lady Studley spoke with great emphasis and earnestness. Her long,
slender hands were clasped tightly together. She had drawn off her
gloves and was bending forward in her chair. Her big, childish, and
somewhat restless blue eyes were fixed imploringly on my face.

"I love my husband," she said, tears suddenly filling them--"and it is
dreadful, dreadful, to see him suffer as he does. He will die unless
someone comes to his aid. Oh, I know I am asking an immense thing, when
I beg of you to leave all your patients and come to the country. But we
can pay. Money is no object whatever to us. We can, we will, gladly pay
you for your services."

"I must think the matter over," I said. "You flatter me by wishing for
me, and by believing that I can render you assistance, but I cannot take
a step of this kind in a hurry. I will write to you by to-night's post
if you will give me your address. In the meantime, kindly tell me some

of the symptoms of Sir Henry's malady."

"I fear it is a malady of the mind," she answered immediately, "but it
is of so vivid and so startling a character, that unless relief is soon
obtained, the body must give way under the strain. You see that I am
very young, Dr. Halifax. Perhaps I look younger than I am--my age is
twenty-two. My husband is twenty years my senior. He would, however, be
considered by most people still a young man. He is a great scholar, and
has always had more or less the habits of a recluse. He is fond of
living in his library, and likes nothing better than to be surrounded by
books of all sorts. Every modern book worth reading is forwarded to him
by its publisher. He is a very interesting man and a brilliant
conversationalist. Perhaps I ought to put all this in the past tense,
for now he scarcely ever speaks--he reads next to nothing--it is
difficult to persuade him to eat--he will not leave the house--he used
to have a rather ruddy complexion--he is now deadly pale and terribly
emaciated. He sighs in the most heartrending manner, and seems to be in
a state of extreme nervous tension. In short, he is very ill, and yet he
seems to have no bodily disease. His eyes have a terribly startled
expression in them--his hand trembles so that he can scarcely raise a
cup of tea to his lips. In short, he looks like a man who has seen
a ghost."

"When did these symptoms begin to appear?" I asked.

"It is mid-winter now," said Lady Studley. "The queer symptoms began to
show themselves in my husband in October. They have been growing worse
and worse. In short, I can stand them no longer," she continued, giving
way to a short, hysterical sob. "I felt I must come to someone--I have
heard of you. Do, do come and save us. Do come and find out what is the
matter with my wretched husband."

"I will write to you to-night," I said, in as kind a voice as I could
muster, for the pretty, anxious wife interested me already. "It may not
be possible for me to stay at Studley Grange for a week, but in any case
I can pro
mise to come and see the patient. One visit will probably be
sufficient--what your husband wants is, no doubt, complete change."

"Oh, yes, yes," she replied, standing up now. "I have said so scores of
times, but Sir Henry won't stir from Studley--nothing will induce him to
go away. He won't even leave his own special bedroom, although I expect
he has dreadful nights." Two hectic spots burnt in her cheeks as she
spoke. I looked at her attentively.

"You will forgive me for speaking," I said, "but you do not look at all
well yourself. I should like to prescribe for you as well as
your husband."

"Thank you," she answered, "I am not very strong. I never have been, but
that is nothing--I mean that my health is not a thing of consequence at
present. Well, I must not take up any more of your time. I shall expect
to get a letter from you to-morrow morning. Please address it to Lady
Studley, Grosvenor Hotel, Victoria."

She touched my hand with fingers that burnt like a living coal and left
the room.

I thought her very ill, and was sure that if I could see my way to
spending a week at Studley Grange, I should have two patients instead of
one. It is always difficult for a busy doctor to leave home, but after
carefully thinking matters over, I resolved to comply with Lady
Studley's request.

[Illustration: "LADY STUDLEY HAD COME HERSELF TO FETCH ME."]

Accordingly, two days later saw me on my way to Wiltshire, and to
Studley Grange. A brougham with two smart horses was waiting at the
station. To my surprise I saw that Lady Studley had come herself
to fetch me.

"I don't know how to thank you," she said, giving me a feverish clasp of
her hand. "Your visit fills me with hope--I believe that you will
discover what is really wrong. Home!" she said, giving a quick,
imperious direction to the footman who appeared at the window of
the carriage.

We bowled forward at a rapid pace, and she continued:--

"I came to meet you to-day to tell you that I have used a little guile
with regard to your visit. I have not told Sir Henry that
 you are coming
here in the capacity of a doctor."

Here she paused and gave me one of her restless glances.

"Do you mind?" she asked.

"What have you said about me to Sir Henry?" I inquired.

"That you are a great friend of the Onslows, and that I have asked you
here for a week's change," she answered immediately.

"As a guest, my husband will be polite and delightful to you--as a
doctor, he would treat you with scant civility, and would probably give
you little or none of his confidence."

I was quite silent for a moment after Lady Studley had told me this.
Then I said:--

"Had I known that I was not to come to your house in the capacity of a
medical man, I might have re-considered my earnest desire to help you."

She turned very pale when I said this, and tears filled her eyes.

"Never mind," I said now, for I could not but be touched by her
extremely pathetic and suffering face, by the look of great illness
which was manifested in every glance. "Never mind now; I am glad you
have told me exactly the terms on which you wish me to approach your
husband; but I think that I can so put matters to Sir Henry that he will
be glad to consult me in my medical capacity."

"Oh, but he does not even know that I suspect his illness. It would
never do for him to know. I suspect! I see! I fear! but I say nothing.
Sir Henry would be much more miserable than he is now, if he thought
that I guessed that there is anything wrong with him."

"It is impossible for me to come to the Grange except as a medical man,"
I answered, firmly. "I will tell Sir Henry that you have seen some
changes in him, and have asked me to visit him as a doctor. Please trust
me. Nothing will be said to your husband that can make matters at all
uncomfortable for you."

Lady Studley did not venture any further remonstrance, and we now
approached the old Grange. It was an irregular pile, built evidently
according to the wants of the different families who had lived in it.
The building was long and rambling, with rows of windows filled up with
panes of latti
ced glass. In front of the house was a sweeping lawn,
which, even at this time of the year, presented a velvety and well-kept
appearance. We drove rapidly round to the entrance door, and a moment
later I found myself in the presence of my host and patient. Sir Henry
Studley was a tall man with a very slight stoop, and an aquiline and
rather noble face. His eyes were dark, and his forehead inclined to be
bald. There was a courtly, old-world sort of look about him. He greeted
me with extreme friendliness, and we went into the hall, a very large
and lofty apartment, to tea.

Lady Studley was vivacious and lively in the extreme. While she talked,
the hectic spots came out again on her cheeks. My uneasiness about her
increased as I noticed these symptoms. I felt certain that she was not
only consumptive, but in all probability she was even now the victim of
an advanced stage of phthisis. I felt far more anxious about her than
about her husband, who appeared to me at that moment to be nothing more
than a somewhat nervous and hypochondriacal person. This state of things
seemed easy to account for in a scholar and a man of sedentary habits.

I remarked about the age of the house, and my host became interested,
and told me one or two stories of the old inhabitants of the Grange. He
said that to-morrow he would have much pleasure in taking me over
the building.

[Illustration: "'HAVE YOU A GHOST HERE?' I ASKED, WITH A LAUGH."]

"Have you a ghost here?" I asked, with a laugh.

I don't know what prompted me to ask the question. The moment I did so,
Sir Henry turned white to his lips, and Lady Studley held up a warning
finger to me to intimate that I was on dangerous ground. I felt that I
was, and hastened to divert the conversation into safer channels.
Inadvertently I had touched on a sore spot. I scarcely regretted having
done so, as the flash in the baronet's troubled eyes, and the extreme
agitation of his face, showed me plainly that Lady Studley was right
when she spoke of his nerves being in a very irritable condition. 
Of
course, I did not believe in ghosts, and wondered that a man of Sir
Henry's calibre could be at all under the influence of this
old-world fear.

"I am sorry that we have no one to meet you," he said, after a few
remarks of a commonplace character had divided us from the ghost
question. "But to-morrow several friends are coming, and we hope you
will have a pleasant time. Are you fond of hunting?"

I answered that I used to be in the old days, before medicine and
patients occupied all my thoughts.

"If this open weather continues, I can probably give you some of your
favourite pastime," rejoined Sir Henry; "and now perhaps you would like
to be shown to your room."

My bedroom was in a modern wing of the house, and looked as cheerful and
as unghostlike as it was possible for a room to be. I did not rejoin my
host and hostess until dinner-time. We had a sociable little meal, at
which nothing of any importance occurred, and shortly after the servants
withdrew, Lady Studley left Sir Henry and me to ourselves. She gave me
another warning glance as she left the room. I had already quite made up
my mind, however, to tell Sir Henry the motive of my visit.

The moment the door closed behind his wife, he started up and asked me
if I would mind coming with him into his library.

"The fact is." he said, "I am particularly glad you have come down. I
want to have a talk with you about my wife. She is extremely unwell."

I signified my willingness to listen to anything Sir Henry might say,
and in a few minutes we found ourselves comfortably established in a
splendid old room, completely clothed with books from ceiling to floor.

"These are my treasures," said the baronet, waving his hand in the
direction of an old bookcase, which contained, I saw at a glance, some
very rare and precious first editions.

"These are my friends, the companions of my hours of solitude. Now sit
down, Dr. Halifax; make yourself at home. You have come here as a guest,
but I have heard of you before, and am inclined to confide in you. I
must frankly s
ay that I hate your profession as a rule. I don't believe
in the omniscience of medical men, but moments come in the lives of all
men when it is necessary to unburden the mind to another. May I give you
my confidence?"

"One moment first," I said. "I can't deceive you, Sir Henry. I have come
here, not in the capacity of a guest, but as your wife's medical man.
She has been anxious about you, and she begged of me to come and stay
here for a few days in order to render you any medical assistance within
my power. I only knew, on my way here to-day, that she had not
acquainted you with the nature of my visit."

While I was speaking, Sir Henry's face became extremely watchful,
eager, and tense.

"This is remarkable," he said. "So Lucilla is anxious about me? I was
not aware that I ever gave her the least clue to the fact that I am
not--in perfect health. This is very strange--it troubles me."

He looked agitated. He placed one long, thin hand on the little table
which stood near, and pouring out a glass of wine, drank it off. I
noticed as he did so the nervous trembling of his hand. I glanced at his
face, and saw that it was thin to emaciation.

"Well," he said, "I am obliged to you for being perfectly frank with me.
My wife scarcely did well to conceal the object of your visit. But now
that you have come, I shall make use of you both for myself and
for her."

"Then you are not well?" I asked.

"Well!" he answered, with almost a shout. "Good God, no! I think that I
am going mad. I know--I know that unless relief soon comes I shall die
or become a raving maniac."

"No, nothing of the kind," I answered, soothingly; "you probably want
change. This is a fine old house, but dull, no doubt, in winter. Why
don't you go away?--to the Riviera, or some other place where there is
plenty of sunshine? Why do you stay here? The air of this place is too
damp to be good for either you or your wife."

Sir Henry sat silent for a moment, then he said, in a terse voice:--

"Perhaps you will advise me what to do after you know the nature 
of the
malady which afflicts me. First of all, however, I wish to speak of
my wife."

"I am ready to listen," I replied.

"You see," he continued, "that she is very delicate?"

"Yes," I replied; "to be frank with you, I should say that Lady Studley
was consumptive."

He started when I said this, and pressed his lips firmly together. After
a moment he spoke.

"You are right," he replied. "I had her examined by a medical man--Sir
Joseph Dunbar--when I was last in London; he said her lungs were
considerably affected, and that, in short, she was far from well."

"Did he not order you to winter abroad?"

"He did, but Lady Studley opposed the idea so strenuously that I was
obliged to yield to her entreaties. Consumption does not seem to take
quite the ordinary form with her. She is restless, she longs for cool
air, she goes out on quite cold days, in a closed carriage, it is true.
Still, except at night, she does not regard herself in any sense as an
invalid. She has immense spirit--I think she will keep up until
she dies."

"You speak of her being an invalid at night," I replied. "What are her
symptoms?"

Sir Henry shuddered quite visibly.

"Oh, those awful nights!" he answered. "How happy would many poor mortals
be, but for the terrible time of darkness. Lady Studley has had dreadful
nights for some time: perspirations, cough, restlessness, bad dreams,
and all the rest of it. But I must hasten to tell you my story quite
briefly. In the beginning of October we saw Sir Joseph Dunbar. I should
then, by his advice, have taken Lady Studley to the Riviera, but she
opposed the idea with such passion and distress, that I abandoned it."

Sir Henry paused here, and I looked at him attentively. I remembered at
that moment what Lady Studley had said about her husband refusing to
leave the Grange under any circumstances. What a strange game of
cross-purposes these two were playing. How was it possible for me to get
at the truth?

"At my wife's earnest request," continued Sir Henry, "we returned to the
Grange. She declared her fir
m intention of remaining here until
she died.

"Soon after our return she suggested that we should occupy separate
rooms at night, reminding me, when she made the request, of the
infectious nature of consumption. I complied with her wish on condition
that I slept in the room next hers, and that on the smallest emergency I
should be summoned to her aid. This arrangement was made, and her room
opens into mine. I have sometimes heard her moving about at night--I
have often heard her cough, and I have often heard her sigh. But she has
never once sent for me, or given me to understand that she required my
aid. She does not think herself very ill, and nothing worries her more
than to have her malady spoken about. That is the part of the story
which relates to my wife."

"She is very ill," I said. "But I will speak of that presently. Now will
you favour me with an account of your own symptoms, Sir Henry?"

[Illustration: "HE LOCKED THE DOOR AND PUT THE KEY IN HIS POCKET."]

He started again when I said this, and going across the room, locked the
door and put the key in his pocket.

"Perhaps you will laugh at me," he said, "but it is no laughing matter,
I assure you. The most terrible, the most awful affliction has come to
me. In short, I am visited nightly by an appalling apparition. You
don't believe in ghosts, I judge that by your face. Few scientific
men do."

"Frankly, I do not," I replied. "So-called ghosts can generally be
accounted for. At the most they are only the figments of an over-excited
or diseased brain."

"Be that as it may," said Sir Henry, "the diseased brain can give such
torture to its victim that death is preferable. All my life I have been
what I consider a healthy minded man. I have plenty of money, and have
never been troubled with the cares which torture men of commerce, or of
small means. When I married, three years ago, I considered myself the
most lucky and the happiest of mortals."

"Forgive a personal question," I interrupted. "Has your marriage
disappointed you?"

"No, no; far from it," he
 replied with fervour. "I love my dear wife
better and more deeply even than the day when I took her as a bride to
my arms. It is true that I am weighed down with sorrow about her, but
that is entirely owing to the state of her health."

"It is strange," I said, "that she should be weighed down with sorrow
about you for the same cause. Have you told her of the thing which
terrifies you?"

"Never, never. I have never spoken of it to mortal. It is remarkable
that my wife should have told you that I looked like a man who has seen
a ghost. Alas! alas! But let me tell you the cause of my shattered
nerves, my agony, and failing health."

"Pray do, I shall listen attentively," I replied.

"Oh, doctor, that I could make you feel the horror of it!" said Sir
Henry, bending forward and looking into my eyes. "Three months ago I no
more believed in visitations, in apparitions, in so-called ghosts, than
you do. Were you tried as I am, your scepticism would receive a severe
shock. Now let me tell you what occurs. Night after night Lady Studley
and I retire to rest at the same hour. We say good-night, and lay our
heads on our separate pillows. The door of communication between us is
shut. She has a night-light in her room--I prefer darkness. I close my
eyes and prepare for slumber. As a rule I fall asleep. My sleep is of
short duration. I awake with beads of perspiration standing on my
forehead, with my heart thumping heavily and with every nerve wide
awake, and waiting for the horror which will come. Sometimes I wait half
an hour--sometimes longer. Then I know by a faint, ticking sound in the
darkness that the Thing, for I can clothe it with no name, is about to
visit me. In a certain spot of the room, always in the same spot, a
bright light suddenly flashes; out of its midst there gleams a
preternaturally large eye, which looks fixedly at me with a diabolical
expression. As time goes, it does not remain long; but as agony counts,
it seems to take years of my life away with it. It fades as suddenly
into grey mist and nothingnes
s as it comes, and, wet with perspiration,
and struggling to keep back screams of mad terror, I bury my head in the
bed-clothes."

"But have you never tried to investigate this thing?" I said.

"I did at first. The first night I saw it, I rushed out of bed and made
for the spot. It disappeared at once. I struck a light--there was
nothing whatever in the room."

"Why do you sleep in that room?"

"I must not go away from Lady Studley. My terror is that she should know
anything of this--my greater terror is that the apparition, failing me,
may visit her. I daresay you think I'm a fool, Halifax; but the fact is,
this thing is killing me, brave man as I consider myself."

"Do you see it every night?" I asked.

[Illustration: "IT IS THE MOST GHASTLY, THE MOST HORRIBLE FORM OF
TORTURE.]

"Not quite every night, but sometimes on the same night it comes twice.
Sometimes it will not come at all for two nights, or even three. It is
the most ghastly, the most horrible form of torture that could hurry a
sane man into his grave or into a madhouse."

"I have not the least shadow of doubt," I said, after a pause, "that the
thing can be accounted for."

Sir Henry shook his head. "No, no," he replied, "it is either as you
suggest, a figment of my own diseased brain, and therefore just as
horrible as a real apparition; or it is a supernatural visitation.
Whether it exists or not, it is reality to me and in no way a dream. The
full horror of it is present with me in my waking moments."

"Do you think anyone is playing an awful practical joke?" I suggested.

"Certainly not. What object can anyone have in scaring me to death?
Besides, there is no one in the room, that I can swear. My outer door is
locked, Lady Studley's outer door is locked. It is impossible that there
can be any trickery in the matter."

I said nothing for a moment. I no more believed in ghosts than I ever
did, but I felt certain that there was grave mischief at work. Sir Henry
must be the victim of a hallucination. This might only be caused by
functional disturbance
 of the brain, but it was quite serious enough to
call for immediate attention. The first thing to do was to find out
whether the apparition could be accounted for in any material way, or if
it were due to the state of Sir Henry's nerves. I began to ask him
certain questions, going fully into the case in all its bearings. I then
examined his eyes with the ophthalmoscope. The result of all this was to
assure me beyond doubt that Sir Henry Studley was in a highly nervous
condition, although I could detect no trace of brain disease.

"Do you mind taking me to your room?" I said.

"Not to-night," he answered. "It is late, and Lady Studley might express
surprise. The object of my life is to conceal this horror from her. When
she is out to-morrow you shall come to the room and judge for yourself."

"Well," I said, "I shall have an interview with your wife to-morrow, and
urge her most strongly to consent to leave the Grange and go away
with you."

Shortly afterwards we retired to rest, or what went by the name of rest
in that sad house, with its troubled inmates. I must confess that,
comfortable as my room was, I slept very little. Sir Henry's story
stayed with me all through the hours of darkness. I am neither nervous
nor imaginative, but I could not help seeing that terrible eye, even in
my dreams.

I met my host and hostess at an early breakfast. Sir Henry proposed that
as the day was warm and fine, I should ride to a neighbouring meet. I
was not in the humour for this, however, and said frankly that I should
prefer remaining at the Grange. One glance into the faces of my host and
hostess told me only too plainly that I had two very serious patients on
my hands. Lady Studley looked terribly weak and excited--the hectic
spots on her cheeks, the gleaming glitter of her eyes, the parched lips,
the long, white, emaciated hands, all showed only too plainly the
strides the malady under which she was suffering was making.

"After all, I cannot urge that poor girl to go abroad," I said to
myself. "She is hastening rapidly to
 her grave, and no power on earth
can save her. She looks as if there were extensive disease of the lungs.
How restless her eyes are, too! I would much rather testify to Sir
Henry's sanity than to hers."

Sir Henry Studley also bore traces of a sleepless night--his face was
bloodless; he averted his eyes from mine; he ate next to nothing.

Immediately after breakfast, I followed Lady Studley into her
morning-room. I had already made up my mind how to act. Her husband
should have my full confidence--she only my partial view of the
situation.

"Well," I said, "I have seen your husband and talked to him. I hope he
will soon be better. I don't think you need be seriously alarmed about
him. Now for yourself, Lady Studley. I am anxious to examine your lungs.
Will you allow me to do so?"

"I suppose Henry has told you I am consumptive?"

"He says you are not well," I answered. "I don't need his word to assure
me of that fact--I can see it with my own eyes. Please let me examine
your chest with my stethoscope."

She hesitated for a moment, looking something like a wild creature
brought to bay. Then she sank into a chair, and with trembling fingers
unfastened her dress. Poor soul, she was almost a walking skeleton--her
beautiful face was all that was beautiful about her. A brief examination
told me that she was in the last stage of phthisis--in short, that her
days were numbered.

"What do you think of me?" she asked, when the brief examination was
over.

"You are ill," I replied.

"How soon shall I die?"

"God only knows that, my dear lady," I answered.

"Oh, you needn't hide your thoughts," she said. "I know that my days are
very few. Oh, if only, if only my husband could come with me! I am so
afraid to go alone, and I am fond of him, very fond of him."

I soothed her as well as I could.

"You ought to have someone to sleep in your room at night," I said. "You
ought not to be left by yourself."

"Henry is near me--in the next room," she replied. "I would not have a
nurse for the world--I hate and detest nurses."

Soon a
fterwards she left me. She was very erratic, and before she left
the room she had quite got over her depression. The sun shone out, and
with the gleam of brightness her volatile spirits rose.

"I am going for a drive," she said. "Will you come with me?"

"Not this morning," I replied. "If you ask me to-morrow, I shall be
pleased to accompany you."

"Well, go to Henry," she answered. "Talk to him--find out what ails him,
order tonics for him. Cheer him in every way in your power. You say he
is not ill--not seriously ill--I know better. My impression is that if
my days are numbered, so are his."

She went away, and I sought her husband. As soon as the wheels of her
brougham were heard bowling away over the gravel sweep, we went up
together to his room.

"That eye came twice last night," he said in an awestruck whisper to me.
"I am a doomed man--a doomed man. I cannot bear this any longer."

We were standing in the room as he said the words. Even in broad
daylight, I could see that he glanced round him with apprehension. He
was shaking quite visibly. The room was decidedly old-fashioned, but the
greater part of the furniture was modern. The bed was an Albert one with
a spring mattress, and light, cheerful dimity hangings. The windows were
French--they were wide open, and let in the soft, pleasant air, for the
day was truly a spring one in winter. The paper on the walls was light.

"This is a quaint old wardrobe," I said. "It looks out of place with the
rest of the furniture. Why don't you have it removed?"

[Illustration: "DON'T GO NEAR IT--I DREAD IT!"]

"Hush," he said, with a gasp. "Don't go near it--I dread it, I have
locked it. It is always in that direction that the apparition appears.
The apparition seems to grow out of the glass of the wardrobe. It always
appears in that one spot."

"I see," I answered. "The wardrobe is built into the wall. That is the
reason it cannot be removed. Have you got the key about you?"

He fumbled in his pocket, and presently produced a bunch of keys.

"I wish you wouldn't open th
e wardrobe," he said. "I frankly admit that
I dislike having it touched."

"All right," I replied. "I will not examine it while you are in the
room. You will perhaps allow me to keep the key?"

"Certainly! You can take it from the bunch, if you wish. This is it. I
shall be only too glad to have it well out of my own keeping."

"We will go downstairs," I said.

We returned to Sir Henry's library. It was my turn now to lock the door.

"Why do you do that?" he asked.

"Because I wish to be quite certain that no one overhears our
conversation."

"What have you got to say?"

"I have a plan to propose to you."

"What is it?"

"I want you to change bedrooms with me to-night."

"What can you mean?--what will Lady Studley say?"

"Lady Studley must know nothing whatever about the arrangement. I think
it very likely that the apparition which troubles you will be discovered
to have a material foundation. In short, I am determined to get to the
bottom of this horror. You have seen it often, and your nerves are much
shattered. I have never seen it, and my nerves are, I think, in
tolerable order. If I sleep in your room to-night--"

"It may not visit you."

"It may not, but on the other hand it may. I have a curiosity to lie on
that bed and to face that wardrobe in the wall. You must yield to my
wishes, Sir Henry."

"But how can the knowledge of this arrangement be kept from my wife?"

"Easily enough. You will both go to your rooms as usual. You will bid
her good-night as usual, and after the doors of communication are closed
I will enter the room and you will go to mine, or to any other that you
like to occupy. You say your wife never comes into your room during the
hours of the night?"

"She has never yet done so."

"She will not to-night. Should she by any chance call for assistance, I
will immediately summon you."

It was very evident that Sir Henry did not like this arrangement. He
yielded, however, to my very strong persuasions, which almost took the
form of commands, for I saw that I could do nothing unless I got
complet
e mastery over the man.

Lady Studley returned from her drive just as our arrangements were fully
made. I had not a moment during all the day to examine the interior of
the wardrobe. The sick woman's restlessness grew greater as the hours
advanced. She did not care to leave her husband's side. She sat with him
as he examined his books. She followed him from room to room. In the
afternoon, to the relief of everyone, some fresh guests arrived. In
consequence we had a cheerful evening. Lady Studley came down to dinner
in white from top to toe. Her dress was ethereal in texture and largely
composed of lace. I cannot describe woman's dress, but with her shadowy
figure and worn, but still lovely face, she looked spiritual. The gleam
in her large blue eyes was pathetic. Her love for her husband was
touching to behold. How soon, how very soon, they must part from each
other! Only I as a doctor knew how impossible it was to keep the lamp of
life much longer burning in the poor girl's frame.

We retired as usual to rest. Sir Henry bade me a cheerful good-night.
Lady Studley nodded to me as she left the room.

[Illustration: "'SLEEP WELL,' SHE SAID, IN A GAY VOICE."]

"Sleep well," she said, in a gay voice.

It was late the next morning when we all met round the breakfast table.
Sir Henry looked better, but Lady Studley many degrees worse, than the
night before. I wondered at her courage in retaining her post at the
head of her table. The visitors, who came in at intervals and took their
seats at the table, looked at her with wonder and compassion.

"Surely my hostess is very ill?" said a guest who sat next my side.

"Yes, but take no notice of it," I answered.

Soon after breakfast I sought Sir Henry.

"Well--well?" he said, as he grasped my hand. "Halifax, you have seen
it. I know you have by the expression of your face."

"Yes," I replied, "I have."

"How quietly you speak. Has not the horror of the thing seized you?"

"No," I said, with a brief laugh. "I told you yesterday that my nerves
were in tolerable order. I think
 my surmise was correct, and that the
apparition has tangible form and can be traced to its foundation."

An unbelieving look swept over Sir Henry's face.

"Ah," he said, "doctors are very hard to convince. Everything must be
brought down to a cold material level to satisfy them; but several
nights in that room would shatter even your nerves, my friend."

"You are quite right," I answered. "I should be very sorry to spend
several nights in that room. Now I will tell you briefly what occurred."

We were standing in the library. Sir Henry went to the door, locked it,
and put the key in his pocket.

"Can I come in?" said a voice outside.

The voice was Lady Studley's.

"In a minute, my darling," answered her husband. "I am engaged with
Halifax just at present."

"Medically, I suppose?" she answered.

"Yes, medically," he responded.

She went away at once, and Sir Henry returned to my side.

"Now speak," he said. "Be quick. She is sure to return, and I don't like
her to fancy that we are talking secrets."

"This is my story," I said. "I went into your room, put out all the
lights, and sat on the edge of the bed."

"You did not get into bed, then?"

"No, I preferred to be up and to be ready for immediate action should
the apparition, the horror, or whatever you call it, appear."

"Good God, it is a horror, Halifax!"

"It is, Sir Henry. A more diabolical contrivance for frightening a man
into his grave could scarcely have been contrived. I can comfort you on
one point, however. The terrible thing you saw is not a figment of your
brain. There is no likelihood of a lunatic asylum in your case. Someone
is playing you a trick."

"I cannot agree with you--but proceed," said the baronet, impatiently.

"I sat for about an hour on the edge of the bed," I continued. "When I
entered the room it was twelve o'clock--one had sounded before there was
the least stir or appearance of anything, then the ticking noise you
have described was distinctly audible. This was followed by a sudden
bright light, which seemed to proceed out of th
e recesses of the
wardrobe."

"What did you feel when you saw that light?"

"Too excited to be nervous," I answered, briefly. "Out of the circle of
light the horrible eye looked at me."

"What did you do then? Did you faint?"

"No, I went noiselessly across the carpet up to the door of the wardrobe
and looked in."

"Heavens! you are daring. I wonder you are alive to tell this tale."

"I saw a shadowy form," I replied--"dark and tall--the one brilliant eye
kept on looking past me, straight into the room. I made a very slight
noise; it immediately disappeared. I waited for some time--nothing more
happened. I got into your bed, Sir Henry, and slept. I can't say that I
had a comfortable night, but I slept, and was not disturbed by anything
extraordinary for the remaining hours of the night."

"Now what do you mean to do? You say you can trace this thing to its
foundation. It seems to me that all you have seen only supports my firm
belief that a horrible apparition visits that room."

"A material one," I responded. "The shadowy form had substance, of that
I am convinced. Sir Henry, I intend to sleep in that room again
to-night."

"Lady Studley will find out."

"She will not. I sleep in the haunted room again to-night, and during
the day you must so contrive matters that I have plenty of time to
examine the wardrobe. I did not do so yesterday because I had not an
opportunity. You must contrive to get Lady Studley out of the way,
either this morning or afternoon, and so manage matters for me that I
can be some little time alone in your room."

"Henry, Henry, how awestruck you look!" said a gay voice at the window.
Lady Studley had come out, had come round to the library window, and,
holding up her long, dark-blue velvet dress, was looking at us with a
peculiar smile.

"Well, my love," replied the baronet. He went to the window and flung it
open. "Lucilla," he exclaimed, "you are mad to stand on the damp grass."

"Oh, no, not mad," she answered. "I have come to that stage when nothing
matters. Is not that so, Dr. Halifax
?"

"You are very imprudent," I replied.

She shook her finger at me playfully, and turned to her husband.

"Henry," she said, "have you taken my keys? I cannot find them
anywhere."

"I will go up and look for them," said Sir Henry. He left the room, and
Lady Studley entered the library through one of the French windows.

"What do you think of my husband this morning?" she asked.

"He is a little better," I replied. "I am confident that he will soon be
quite well again."

She gave a deep sigh when I said this, her lips trembled, and she turned
away. I thought my news would make her happy, and her depression
surprised me.

At this moment Sir Henry came into the room.

"Here are your keys," he said to his wife. He gave her the same bunch he
had given me the night before. I hoped she would not notice that the key
of the wardrobe was missing.

"And now I want you to come for a drive with me," said Sir Henry.

He did not often accompany her, and the pleasure of this unlooked-for
indulgence evidently tempted her.

"Very well," she answered. "Is Dr. Halifax coming?"

"No, he wants to have a ride."

"If he rides, can he not follow the carriage?"

"Will you do that, Halifax?" asked my host.

"No, thank you," I answered; "I must write some letters before I go
anywhere. I will ride to the nearest town and post them presently, if I
may." I left the room as I spoke.

Shortly afterwards I saw from a window Sir Henry and his wife drive
away. They drove in a large open landau, and two girls who were staying
in the house accompanied them. My hour had come, and I went up at once
to Sir Henry's bedroom. Lady Studley's room opened directly into that of
her husband, but both rooms had separate entrances.

I locked the two outer doors now, and then began my investigations. I
had the key of the wardrobe in my pocket.

[Illustration: "GOOD HEAVENS! WHAT HAD HAPPENED?"]

It was troublesome to unlock, because the key was a little rusty, and it
was more than evident that the heavy doors had not been opened for some
time. Both these doors w
ere made of glass. When shut, they resembled in
shape and appearance an ordinary old-fashioned window. The glass was set
in deep mullions. It was thick, was of a peculiar shade of light blue,
and was evidently of great antiquity. I opened the doors and went
inside. The wardrobe was so roomy that I could stand upright with
perfect comfort. It was empty, and was lined through and through with
solid oak. I struck a light and began to examine the interior with care.
After a great deal of patient investigation I came across a notch in the
wood. I pressed my finger on this, and immediately a little panel slid
back, which revealed underneath a small button. I turned the button and
a door at the back of the wardrobe flew open. A flood of sunlight poured
in, and stepping out, I found myself in another room. I looked around me
in astonishment. This was a lady's chamber. Good heavens! what had
happened? I was in Lady Studley's room. Shutting the mysterious door of
the wardrobe very carefully, I found that all trace of its existence
immediately vanished.

There was no furniture against this part of the wall. It looked
absolutely bare and smooth. No picture ornamented it. The light paper
which covered it gave the appearance of a perfectly unbroken pattern. Of
course, there must be a concealed spring somewhere, and I lost no time
in feeling for it. I pressed my hand and the tips of my fingers in every
direction along the wall. Try as I would, however, I could not find the
spring, and I had at last to leave Lady Studley's room and go back to
the one occupied by her husband, by the ordinary door.

Once more I re-entered the wardrobe and deliberately broke off the
button which opened the secret door from within. Anyone who now entered
the wardrobe by this door, and shut it behind him, would find it
impossible to retreat. The apparition, if it had material foundation,
would thus find itself trapped in its own net.

What could this thing portend?

I had already convinced myself that if Sir Henry were the subject of a
hallucination,
 I also shared it. As this was impossible, I felt certain
that the apparition had a material foundation. Who was the person who
glided night after night into Lady Studley's room, who knew the trick of
the secret spring in the wall, who entered the old wardrobe, and
performed this ghastly, this appalling trick on Sir Henry Studley? I
resolved that I would say nothing to Sir Henry of my fresh discovery
until after I had spent another night in the haunted room.

Accordingly, I slipped the key of the wardrobe once more into my pocket
and went downstairs.

I had my way again that night. Once more I found myself the sole
occupant of the haunted room. I put out the light, sat on the edge of
the bed, and waited the issue of events. At first there was silence and
complete darkness, but soon after one o'clock I heard the very slight
but unmistakable tick-tick, which told me that the apparition was about
to appear. The ticking noise resembled the quaint sound made by the
death spider. There was no other noise of any sort, but a quickening of
my pulses, a sensation which I could not call fear, but which was
exciting to the point of pain, braced me up for an unusual and horrible
sight. The light appeared in the dim recess of the wardrobe. It grew
clear and steady, and quickly resolved itself into one intensely bright
circle. Out of this circle the eye looked at me. The eye was unnaturally
large--it was clear, almost transparent, its expression was full of
menace and warning. Into the circle of light presently a shadowy and
ethereal hand intruded itself. The fingers beckoned me to approach,
while the eye looked fixedly at me. I sat motionless on the side of the
bed. I am stoical by nature and my nerves are well seasoned, but I am
not ashamed to say that I should be very sorry to be often subjected to
that menace and that invitation. The look in that eye, the beckoning
power in those long, shadowy fingers would soon work havoc even in the
stoutest nerves. My heart beat uncomfortably fast, and I had to say over
and over to mysel
f, "This is nothing more than a ghastly trick." I had
also to remind myself that I in my turn had prepared a trap for the
apparition. The time while the eye looked and the hand beckoned might in
reality have been counted by seconds; to me it seemed like eternity. I
felt the cold dew on my forehead before the rapidly waning light assured
me that the apparition was about to vanish. Making an effort I now left
the bed and approached the wardrobe. I listened intently. For a moment
there was perfect silence. Then a fumbling noise was distinctly audible.
It was followed by a muffled cry, a crash, and a heavy fall. I struck a
light instantly, and taking the key of the wardrobe from my pocket,
opened it. Never shall I forget the sight that met my gaze.

There, huddled up on the floor, lay the prostrate and unconscious form
of Lady Studley. A black cloak in which she had wrapped herself partly
covered her face, but I knew her by her long, fair hair. I pulled back
the cloak, and saw that the unhappy girl had broken a blood-vessel, and
even as I lifted her up I knew that she was in a dying condition.

I carried her at once into her own room and laid her on the bed. I then
returned and shut the wardrobe door, and slipped the key into my pocket.
My next deed was to summon Sir Henry.

"What is it?" he asked, springing upright in bed.

"Come at once," I said, "your wife is very ill."

"Dying?" he asked, in an agonized whisper.

I nodded my head. I could not speak.

My one effort now was to keep the knowledge of the ghastly discovery I
had made from the unhappy husband.

He followed me to his wife's room. He forgot even to question me about
the apparition, so horrified was he at the sight which met his view.

I administered restoratives to the dying woman, and did what I could to
check the haemorrhage. After a time Lady Studley opened her dim eyes.

"Oh, Henry!" she said, stretching out a feeble hand to him, "come with
me, come with me. I am afraid to go alone."

"My poor Lucilla," he said. He smoothed her cold forehead, and tri
ed to
comfort her by every means in his power.

After a time he left the room. When he did so she beckoned me to
approach. "I have failed," she said, in the most thrilling voice of
horror I have ever listened to. "I must go alone. He will not come
with me."

"What do you mean?" I asked.

She could scarcely speak, but at intervals the following words dropped
slowly from her lips:--

"I was the apparition. I did not want my husband to live after me.
Perhaps I was a little insane. I cannot quite say. When I was told by
Sir Joseph Dunbar that there was no hope of my life, a most appalling
and frightful jealousy took possession of me. I pictured my husband with
another wife. Stoop down."

Her voice was very faint. I could scarcely hear her muttered words. Her
eyes were glazing fast, death was claiming her, and yet hatred against
some unknown person thrilled in her feeble voice.

"Before my husband married me, he loved another woman," she continued.
"That woman is now a widow. I felt certain that immediately after my
death he would seek her out and marry her. I could not bear the
thought--it possessed me day and night. That, and the terror of dying
alone, worked such a havoc within me that I believe I was scarcely
responsible for my own actions. A mad desire took possession of me to
take my husband with me, and so to keep him from her, and also to have
his company when I passed the barriers of life. I told you that my
brother was a doctor. In his medical-student days the sort of trick I
have been playing on Sir Henry was enacted by some of his
fellow-students for his benefit, and almost scared him into fever. One
day my brother described the trick to me, and I asked him to show me how
it was done. I used a small electric lamp and a very strong reflector."

"How did you find out the secret door of the wardrobe?" I asked.

"Quite by chance. I was putting some dresses into the wardrobe one day
and accidentally touched the secret panel. I saw at once that here was
my opportunity."

"You must have been alarmed at your succe
ss," I said, after a pause.
"And now I have one more question to ask: Why did you summon me to
the Grange?"

She made a faint, impatient movement.

"I wanted to be certain that my husband was really very ill," she said.
"I wanted you to talk to him--I guessed he would confide in you; I
thought it most probable that you would tell him that he was a victim of
brain hallucinations. This would frighten him and would suit my purpose
exactly. I also sent for you as a blind. I felt sure that under these
circumstances neither you nor my husband could possibly suspect me."

She was silent again, panting from exhaustion.

"I have failed," she said, after a long pause. "You have discovered the
truth. It never occurred to me for a moment that you would go into the
room. He will recover now."

She paused; a fresh attack of haemorrhage came on. Her breath came
quickly. Her end was very near. Her dim eyes could scarcely see.

Groping feebly with her hand she took mine.

"Dr. Halifax--promise."

"What?" I asked.

"I have failed, but let me keep his love, what little love he has for
me, before he marries that other woman. Promise that you will never
tell him."

"Rest easy," I answered, "I will never tell him."

Sir Henry entered the room.

I made way for him to kneel by his wife's side.

As the grey morning broke Lady Studley died.

Before my departure from the Grange I avoided Sir Henry as much as
possible. Once he spoke of the apparition and asked if I had seen it.
"Yes," I replied.

Before I could say anything further, he continued:--

"I know now why it came; it was to warn me of my unhappy wife's death."
He said no more. I could not enlighten him, and he is unlikely now ever
to learn the truth.

The following day I left Studley Grange. I took with me, without asking
leave of any-one, a certain long black cloak, a small electric lamp,
and a magnifying glass of considerable power.

It may be of interest to explain how Lady Studley in her unhealthy
condition of mind and body performed the extraordinary trick by which
she hoped 
to undermine her husband's health, and ultimately cause
his death.

I experimented with the materials which I carried away with me, and
succeeded, so my friends told me, in producing a most ghastly effect.

I did it in this way. I attached the mirror of a laryngoscope to my
forehead in such a manner as to enable it to throw a strong reflection
into one of my eyes. In the centre of the bright side of the
laryngoscope a small electric lamp was fitted. This was connected with a
battery which I carried in my hand. The battery was similar to those
used by the ballet girls in Drury Lane Theatre, and could be brought
into force by a touch and extinguished by the removal of the pressure.
The eye which was thus brilliantly illumined looked through a lens of
some power. All the rest of the face and figure was completely covered
by the black cloak. Thus the brightest possible light was thrown on the
magnified eye, while there was corresponding increased gloom around.

When last I heard of Studley Grange it was let for a term of years and
Sir Henry had gone abroad. I have not heard that he has married again,
but he probably will, sooner or later.

 * * * * *

_The Queen of Holland._

BY MARY SPENCER-WARREN.

 Her Majesty the Queen-Regent of Holland has graciously accorded
 special permission to the writer of the following article to
 visit the Royal Palaces of Amsterdam and The Hague to obtain
 photographs for publication in this Magazine: a privilege of
 the greatest value, which is now accorded for the first time,
 the palaces never before having been photographed.

[Illustration: THE ROYAL PALACE, AMSTERDAM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

"I know a city, whose inhabitants dwell on the tops of trees like
rooks." Thus spake Erasmus; and this literal fact makes Amsterdam a most
curious as well as a most interesting place.

Were I writing of any one of Queen Victoria's Palaces, I should have no
need to speak of its situation: but, travellers though we are, we do not
all see these quaint Dutch cities, so a few i
ntroductory words may not
come amiss.

A walk round the city reminds one of Paris with its Boulevards planted
with trees, and Venice with its all-present canals; indeed, it is
actually divided up into nearly one hundred islands, connected by over
three hundred bridges. A curious thing is, that its inhabitants are
really living below the level of the sea, which is stoutly dammed out.
Thus, if necessary, water could be made its protection from
any invasion.

To go back to the commencement, everything, streets, houses, and bridges
are all built upon wooden piles driven into the ground. This is
absolutely necessary, as the natural soil is such that no permanent
structure can be put up otherwise. On how many piles this city stands it
is impossible to form an accurate idea; one building--the Royal Palace
(Het Paleis)--resting on some 13,659. This is situated on the Dam, the
highest point of the city. It is 282ft. long; the height, with tower,
being 187ft. It was built from 1648-1655 for a town hall, and only
became a Royal Palace in 1808, when Napoleon first abode in it. As such,
it has a great drawback, the want of a suitable entrance.

[Illustration: THE HALL OR RECEPTION-ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

I enter now at the rear of the building, which--situated in the Gedempte
Voorburgwal--is the entrance used by their Majesties. In spite of its
civic associations, when once inside there is much of the state and
grandeur inseparable from Royalty, and I soon determine that Holland can
almost equal England for its palatial contents and embellishments. The
staircases and corridors are severe to simplicity, but when I look round
the first apartment I intend inspecting, I am struck with the immensity
and the exceeding beauty of its appearance. This is known as the Hall or
Reception-Room, and is said to be the finest in Europe. Its proportions
are certainly magnificent, 125ft. by 55ft.--a special feature being a
remarkably fine roof, 100ft. in height, with entire absence of columns
or other support. Roof,
 walls, and the hall entire are lined with white
Italian marble, the floor having an inlaid copper centre representative
of the Firmament. The large flag you see drooping from the roof is
commemorative of the siege of Antwerp, being the one used by General
Chasse on that occasion, the various groups of smaller ones being
reminiscences of the eighty years' Spanish war and of Indian foes. Some
very beautiful examples of the sculptor's art are manifest, the
photographic work here introduced giving some idea of the exquisite
detail and most remarkable execution of Artus Quellin and his able
assistants.

Here you will observe an allegorical group denoting Plenty, Wisdom, and
Strength, typical of the City of Amsterdam. We had a little adventure in
securing views of this hall. At one end is a small gallery, used as the
mainstay for the temporary orchestra, which is erected on festal
occasions. Thinking our work could be better shown from that point, we
proceeded to it by a dark and winding staircase in the rear.

All went well for a time, but during a period of watchful quietude our
artist was suddenly and unexpectedly confronted with a gathering of rats
of anything but peaceable aspect. It was too much for him! He made a
wild rush for the staircase, which, being narrow and treacherous,
resulted in a too rapid descent, a very forcible alighting at the foot,
and a much bruised and shaken body.

For a few minutes we thought our photographic work would be closed for a
season; but when spirits and energies revived, we began to think of the
camera and the very long exposure plate up at the top; so up we went
again with much clattering commotion to warn our enemies of our
approach, and thus you have a view that one of our party will ever
regard as dearly obtained.

Note the extremely delicate crystal chandeliers, for these are quite a
feature in the Dutch Palaces; so graceful and handsome, and so unlike
the generality of heavily-constructed appendages one is accustomed to
behold. The other end of the hall has also some choice
 sculptured
marble, but unfortunately part of it is hidden by the before-mentioned
gallery. Could you obtain a clear view, you would see a figure of
Justice, with Ignorance and Quarrelsomeness crouched at her feet: on one
side a skeleton, and on the other Punishment. Above all is the figure of
Atlas supporting the globe.

Here I am given a full description of the appearance of this hall when
laid for the State banquet on the occasion of the somewhat recent visit
of the German Emperor. Splendid, indeed, must have been the effect of
the hundreds of lights gleaming upon the pure marble, the rare exotics,
the massive plate, the State dresses, and the rich liveries; and I am
not surprised at the enthusiasm of the narrator as he dilates on the
grandeur displayed.

[Illustration: THE THRONE ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

Passing through the doorway immediately under Atlas, I am at once in the
Throne Room. This is a fine apartment; its ceiling in alternate painted
panels and arms in relief, Marble columns stand out from the rich oaken
walls, rich draperies giving colour to the whole. I hear of a rare old
painting and a fine chimney-piece hidden away behind the throne, but
have no opportunity of seeing, so perforce turn my attention elsewhere.
On either side are some glass fronted cases containing quite a
collection of ragged and venerable regimental colours of unmistakable
Spanish origin. Had I time to linger, I should hear of many fierce
struggles and much gallant conduct ere these trophies were taken; but
all this is of the past, and so I leave them, silent tokens of
national pride.

[Illustration: THE QUEEN OF HOLLAND.
_From a Photo. by W. G. Kuijer, Amsterdam._]

The chandeliers here are of very unique and costly appearance: Royal
Arms and crowns in ormolu, with pendants of curious device in pure
crystal; three hundred and sixty-four lights are here displayed.

While I have been looking round, attentive servitors have been busily
engaged in uncovering the throne and canopy for my inspection, and 
the
crown which surmounts the chair is fetched from its safe keeping place,
screwed on, and I am at liberty to thoroughly examine the most important
piece of furniture in the kingdom.

It is essentially new looking; and really _is_ so, only having been
fitted up some three years since, on the death of the late King and the
consequent accession of Wilhelmina, the present child-Queen. Virtually
this seat is unoccupied, as five years must elapse ere the coming of age
and coronation of her youthful Majesty. Meanwhile her mother is
Queen-Regent, governing wisely and well, and endearing herself to the
people in every way; but more especially in the care she manifests in
the training of their future ruler to the proper regard of the important
position she will have to fill, and the faithful observance of duties
appertaining to such a position.

[Illustration: THE QUEEN-REGENT.
_From a Photo. by W. G. Kuijer, Amsterdam._]

Accomplishments are imparted as a matter of course, but very much
attention is given to formation of character, and many stories reached
me of the wise method displayed, and the already promising result,
giving much hope for a bright future. As most of my readers are aware,
the Queen Regent and our Duchess of Albany are sisters, and all who know
anything of the sweet-faced widow of our beloved Queen's youngest son
will at once comprehend much of the sister whom she so nearly resembles.

Perhaps you would like a description of the throne. The chair is
beautifully burnished, covered with ruby velvet, and edged with ruby and
gold fringe; the back is surmounted by a crown containing sapphires,
with lions in support; another crown and the letter W being wrought on
the velvet immediately underneath. In front of the chair is a footstool
to match. The canopy is curtained in ruby velvet, with lining of cream
silk--in token of the youth of its future occupant--with fringe, cord,
and tassels of gold. It is surmounted by crowns and ostrich plumes, on
the inner centre being worked the Royal Arms, with the motto "Je

Maintiendrai" standing out in bold relief. On either side the canopy may
be noted the floral wreaths containing the "Zuid Holland" and "Noord
Holland" respectively. The room--as are the major part of them--is
richly carpeted with hand-made "Deventers" of artistic design and
colour blend.

[Illustration: THE QUEEN'S SITTING-ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stewart, Richmond._]

Leaving here, I pass on to a room which is of much importance, namely,
the sitting-room of Her Majesty the Queen. In the lifetime of the late
King it was his habit to pass very much of his time here; thus, this was
really His Majesty's audience chamber. Here he would have his little
daughter of whom he was passionately fond--taking a great delight in
listening to her merry prattle, and her amusing remarks on whatever
attracted her attention. The windows of the room look out on to the Dam,
a large square, which is quite the busiest part of the city. The view
from these windows is a never-ending source of interest to the little
Princess, and here she is wont to station herself, the inhabitants
continually congregating and greeting her with hearty cheering.

The room has an artistic ceiling by Holsteyn, and on the walls are some
paintings rich in detail, and of much historic interest. One of Flinck's
largest works--"Marcus Curius Dentatus"--is at one end: at the other,
one of Ferdinand Bol's--"Fabricius in the Camp of Pyrrhus." Facing the
windows is one by Wappers and Eeckhout: one that irresistibly appeals
to the hearts of all Hollanders. It is called the "Self-Sacrifice of Van
Speyk," and depicts the brave admiral of that name blowing up his vessel
rather than surrender.

Van Speyk was educated in one of the public schools for which Amsterdam
is famous. Quite early in life he entered the navy, where his career was
brilliant and his promotion rapid, but never did he so gain the devoted
admiration of his countrymen as when he had nothing before him but death
or defeat, and chose the former, calling on his men to jump and swim, if
they cared to;
 if not, to remain and share his fate. Only one jumped:
the others stood by their commander, faced death calmly, and won a
never-dying renown for their heroism.

There is a wonderful chandelier from the ceiling centre, made of copper
and ormolu, burning seventy-two lights, and of such enormous size that
one wonders how many floors it would crash through if it were to give
way; then I learn that it is supported by concealed cross-beams hidden
away under the ceiling. After that information, it is a great deal more
comfortable to walk about under it than hitherto, as the men in
uncovering it had moved it, and it was still swinging backwards and
forwards in anything but a reassuring manner. Some fine marble columns
and a sculptured chimney-piece are worth attention, as are the costly
hangings and carpet. Here I may say that the greater part of the
furniture in this Palace is "First Empire" style, and of the costliest
description.

[Illustration: A CORNER OF THE QUEEN'S SITTING-ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

What will, no doubt, greatly interest you is the accompanying photograph
of small furniture specially made for her youthful Majesty, and used
exclusively by her. The frames are of the finest over-burnish, the plush
upholstery being decorated with the rarest specimens of art needlework.
On one of the little tables you will note a battledore and shuttlecock,
with another thrown upon the floor, as though the player had been
suddenly interrupted in the midst of her play. Very ordinary make and
shape are these toys, such as you may see in any middle-class English
home, and each of them looking like favourites--judging from the signs
of much use they present.

Play-days are not yet over for the Queen, and doubtless she does not
wish to hasten their departure, for children are children all the world
over, whether born in palace or cottage. This particular one is not to
be envied by those of lower station, who have not the responsibility of
position ever looming in front of them--for she is shut away 
from many
youthful pleasures, and denied the constant companionship of those
suited to her age.

I heard a story that on one occasion, in playing with her dolls, she was
thus heard to speak to a supposed refractory one: "Now, be good and
quiet, because if you don't I will turn you into a Queen, and then you
will not have anyone to play with at all." That is sufficiently pathetic
to speak volumes of what it is to be born in the purple, as was
Wilhelmina of the Netherlands.

[Illustration: PAINTED FRIEZE ON MANTEL-PIECE IN DINING-ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond_.]

The Hall of the Mose is the next place I visit, used as the small dining
room of the Royal Family. Unfortunately, this is just undergoing
partial restoration, so no proper picture or description can be
obtained. I observe a painted ceiling, some marble columns of the Ionic
order, blue and gold furniture and hangings; and then some costly and
rare paintings, three in number.

Facing the windows is a masterpiece of Jakob de Wit, "Moses Choosing the
Seventy Elders." The figures are life-size, the painting--extending the
entire length of the room--said to be the largest in Europe. There are
marble fireplaces at either end, over one "Solomon's Prayer," by G.
Flinck, and over the other "Jethro Counselling Moses to Appoint
Judges from the People," by Bronkhorst. Quite a feature of this room is
the wonderful deceptive painting by this master over each door, and on a
continuous frieze. All of this is such an exact representation of
sculptured relief, that it is almost necessary to touch it ere one can
be convinced of its really level surface. I was told that this is the
only known example of this truly wonderful work.

[Illustration: THE JUDGMENT OF SOLOMON.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond_.]

Continuing my way through the aides-de-camps' waiting-room--stopping
merely to note one of Jan Livensz' works--I go on to the Vierschaar.
Here the walls are lined entirely with white marble, and present a fine
sculptured frieze representing Disgrac
e and Punishment, with reliefs
emblematical of Wisdom and Justice. The one here presented is Wisdom, as
shown in the Judgment of Solomon.

In the large dining-room may also be seen more of the matchless white
marble ornamentation, and I should much like to linger and admire, but
as Her Majesty the Queen-Regent has graciously promised me the _entree_
of other of her Royal Palaces, I am obliged rather to curtail my work in
Amsterdam.

Just now their Majesties are not at this particular Palace, so I see
nothing of State dinners, receptions, and other functions, but although
I do not see them, I hear very much; and it would seem that when they
_are_ here, the Palace is a sort of open house, and festivity is the
order of the day. To all appearance the etiquette is not quite so rigid
as at _our_ Court, the Sovereign being more accessible to the people.
Persons wishing to pay their respects call at the Palace about five days
previous, write their name in a book kept for the purpose, then they are
admitted on the specified day, provided no good reason exists for their
exclusion. The people are eminently loyal, and speak of the little Queen
in tones of warmest affection, an affection which is also extended to
the Queen-Regent, who has evidently made herself a firm position in
the country.

The Palace at Den Haag is before me now, but first perhaps you would
like to know something of the Palace at the Loo, a place I had the
privilege of seeing; though, as their Majesties were actually in
residence there, photographic work was not possible.

The Loo is near Apeldoorn, and some considerable distance from
Amsterdam. I have only the one day to spare, so am off early in the
morning. Steaming out of the Central Station, I soon find myself
speeding along in such comfortable, well-warmed carriages as would
rejoice the unfortunate winter traveller in this country, who is all but
dependent on his ability to pay for the not very useful foot-warmer.

The country is pretty but flat, <DW18>s instead of hedges, windmills
without number; 
hundreds of cows in the fields, very fine cattle, but
they _do_ look comical, for the majority of them are wearing coats!

At frequent intervals along the line are road crossings, each with their
little gatehouse, and each kept by a woman, who turns out as we pass,
dressed in her long blue coat with scarlet facings, quaint, tall shiny
hat, and in her hand the signal-flag.

At length I reach Apeldoorn, and there a difficulty presents itself.
That the Palace is some distance away I am aware, but _how_ far I do not
know, or in which direction, and while I am parleying and gesticulating
in a mixture of French, English, and a _few_ words of Dutch, the only
conveyance obtainable takes itself off, and I am left to tramp through
the woods with a jargon of Dutch directions ringing in my ears, and a
very faint idea of longitude or latitude in my mind.

The first part lay through a long, straggling village leading right into
a beautiful forest. Given a fine day, and a certainty of route, it would
have been simply grand; but as it soon poured in torrents, my situation
was anything but enviable--in fact, I was almost in despair, when a huge
cart laden with trunks of trees came slowly from a turning near.

Making the man in charge understand that I wanted the "Paleis," I found
he was bound in the same direction. By this time the rutty roads were
almost ankle deep in mud, so when I was invited to ride, I gladly
scrambled to the top of the pile, and so jogged along; my good-natured
guide trudging at the side, pipe in mouth, regardless of the weather. In
such stately style, then, I at length sighted the Palace, but was
careful to make a descent before getting _too_ near, as THE STRAND
MAGAZINE must make a more dignified appearance at a Royal residence than
a wood-cart and a smock-frocked driver can impart.

Four or five men in State liveries bow profoundly as I enter, one of
whom conducts me to an ante-room, and, after a short interval, through
some long corridors, up some stairs and into the presence of one of Her
Majesty's Gent
lemen of the Household. A courteous interview with him,
and I am asked to wait for Her Majesty's Private Secretary, who, out at
present, will see me on his return.

[Illustration: THE ROYAL PALACE AT DEN HAAG.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond_.]

Of course I make the best use of the interval and see all I can of the
Palace. A fine-looking and imposing building it is, standing back in a
large quadrangle, the latter being gay with flowers. The outer rails are
literally on the edge of the wood, and no more secluded spot can be
imagined than this--the favourite residence of their Majesties. His
Majesty the late King also preferred this residence to those more
immediately near or in towns, and it was here he breathed his last.

What I see of the interior is superbly grand, but it is more to the
purpose that I have the honour of seeing their Majesties during the day,
and the opportunity of some observation. The youthful Queen seems a most
pleasing and intelligent-looking child, and is eminently child-like and
unaffected in her manner and movements. Readers may be interested in
knowing that, in addition to masters provided for Her Majesty's
training, she has an English governess, under whose charge she is more
immediately placed.

The Queen-Regent, as I have already said, much resembles her sister; not
so tall, rather stouter, but with much the same gentle and rather sad
expression of countenance. Strange that these two sisters should both
become widows at an early age. One comfort they have, there is no very
great distance between them; and though, of course, the Queen-Regent
cannot leave her country much, there is nothing to prevent the Duchess
of Albany going there; so a suite of apartments is kept for her at
each Palace.

My interview with Her Majesty's Private Secretary is of the most
pleasant, and I cannot but record my grateful appreciation of this
gentleman's kindness and courtesy extended towards me throughout my stay
in Holland; such courteous attention much facilitating my work.

Back again to Amster
dam; and the next day off in quite an opposite
direction to Den Haag, one of the cleanest and most picturesque places I
have ever seen.

[Illustration: STATUE OF WILLIAM II, WITH THE CHURCH.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond_.]

Here the Palace was built by William II. It is in the Grecian style, and
stands on the site of a former hunting-lodge, dating back to the 9th
century. Facing the principal entrance is an equestrian statue of
William II., at the back of which you note the church attended by the
family. The entrance hall and staircase are lined with marble, the
stairs themselves being of the same. Before proceeding up them, however,
we go through to the pretty and well-kept garden and take a view from
the lawn. In the right wing of the building as it faces you, the Queen's
private apartments are situated, the left wing containing the rooms
occupied by the Duchess of Albany when at The Hague.

Now we pass up the grand staircase, where I pause to note the Ionic
columns, the ormolu and porcelain candelabra, a Siberian vase from the
Emperor Nicholas, five immense vases from the Emperor of China, a
painting of William IV., and one of Maria of Stockholm and family.

[Illustration: THE LATE KING'S RECEPTION-ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond_.]

Leaving here, the first room I enter is the King's reception-room. This
is a very bright looking and expensively fitted apartment, furnished in
electric blue and gold, massive gold-framed panels, and a ceiling
decorated in relief with arms and mottoes in gold and white. The
chimney-piece is purest marble, the frescoes showing crowns, arms, etc.
The candelabra are over-burnished brass and Dresden china, some
being Japanese.

[Illustration: THE QUEEN'S BALL-ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

The next room is most interesting, for it is a small ball-room, the
ball-room in fact of Her Majesty the Queen. It has a beautiful inlaid
floor, a white ceiling worked in relief, crimson and gold curtains, and
furniture of the First Empire, some of i
t upholstered in gold silk, with
a variety of colours intermixed. Here are shown some priceless Sevres
china, and a present of vases from the Emperor Napoleon. Also I note a
fine marble vase from the King's Palace in Luxemburg. On the wall are
some handsome gold-framed mirrors, and from the ceiling costly
chandeliers with two hundred and twenty lights. The mantel is
exquisitely carved marble, with an ormolu frieze. On one side you will
note a small piano; it is a French one, of very clear and fine tone, and
beautifully finished in every respect. In this room Her Majesty the
Queen may be imagined enjoying the balls given to the youthful
aristocracy, something different to the State dances in the larger room;
and, doubtless, by a long way, much more enjoyable. By the time the
Queen can command the State balls, she will have commenced to feel the
cares of her position; and will look back with real regret to the
assemblies here, when she had merely to enjoy herself, a devoted mother
observing the graver duties, her own greatest trouble, perhaps, being
the acquirement of the tasks assigned by the governess and masters.

[Illustration: THE LARGE DINING-ROOM.
_From a Photo by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

The large dining-room has some fine family portraits on its walls. The
first you will notice is that of William II., on horseback, leading an
attack; the artist (Keirzer) has produced a first-rate work of both man
and horse. Underneath this picture stands the favourite horse of William
II., one which carried him through numerous engagements, and earned from
his Royal master a gratitude and affection that caused him to wish for
his preservation in a position where he would constantly be reminded of
him.

[Illustration: FAVOURITE HORSE OF WILLIAM II.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

The ceiling of this room shows some beautiful relief carving of fruit
and flowers, also some fine fresco work; the chandeliers here are
massive, as is the furniture and other appointments. The room is long
and of not much width, bu
t lofty and well-lighted.

The buffet adjoining the dining-room has some very costly and, at the
same time, some very interesting contents. The Empire furniture is
draped in rich crimson silk, the walls being covered with silk brocade
of the same colour. The chimney-piece of sculptured marble, with an
ormolu frieze, holds some choice antique porcelain vases and a valuable
Roman timepiece. A massive chandelier hangs from the centre of a ceiling
wrought with the arms of the house--this chandelier being solid silver.
It was presented by the inhabitants of Amsterdam, while two silver
lustres at the sides of the fireplace were presented by Rotterdam. Two
exquisite statues stand in front of the windows, one of Venus, the other
Diana, midway between which is an immense porcelain vase on a pedestal.
This you will note in the view given of the room. It has special
interest just now, as it was given by Marshal MacMahon, whose death
recently occurred, and whose funeral--a State military one--I had the
opportunity of witnessing a few weeks ago in Paris.

[Illustration: THE CRYSTAL ROOM.
_From a Photo. by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

The windows are of very fine stained glass, the different panes giving
portraits of Kings and Princes, under each being depicted battles they
had fought. Note this rare Florentine mosaic table with pedestal of
ormolu; then we will pass on to the crystal room, an ante-room to the
ball-room. Some immense candelabra of purest crystal at once attracted
my attention; not only were they of the largest I had ever seen, but
they were absolutely unique in composition: the pedestals in support
were ormolu and marble.

[Illustration: SIDEBOARD AND MINIATURES IN SMALL DINING-ROOM.
_From a Photo by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

The appointments here are again in the First Empire style. The view here
shown is looking into the small dining-room, the private dining-room of
their Majesties. In it there is to be seen a costly collection of
miniatures, nearly a hundred and twenty in number, every one of them
from the 
hand of Dutch masters. They are all beautifully framed in
groups. In the photograph you will observe a finely carved side-board
with some of these miniatures showing on either side. Also in this room
you will find several specimens of engraving on brass and some Russian
productions in malachite.

[Illustration: THE STATE BALL-ROOM.
_From a Photo by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

Now to the State ball-room--a nobly proportioned room, but of somewhat
severe aspect Some good relief carving is shown and a splendid parquetry
floor; also some costly furniture, over-burnished and upholstered in
crimson with floral devices. No doubt it has a very imposing and gay
appearance when lighted up and filled with guests. Nearly seven hundred
lights are displayed, which would naturally cause a most brilliant
effect. Somehow ball-rooms are never satisfactory when viewed in the
day-time, unless you have an eye for proportions only; in that case this
one could not fail to please, as it cannot be less than 90ft. long and
is of magnificent height, added to by a glass concave roof.

[Illustration: THE QUEEN'S RECEPTION-ROOM.
_From a Photo by Gunn & Stuart, Richmond._]

The Queen's reception-room is prettily hung in crimson with designs
depicting art and music; the furniture bright and handsome in crimson
and cream. On either side of the fireplace stand some crimson velvet
screens in burnished frames, the crown and arms worked on the velvet in
characters of gold. In the accompanying view you will observe a large
album on a stand; this was given to the Queen-Regent by the ladies of
Holland. It is of leather, with ormolu mounts, on the covers being
painted panels and flowers worked in silk, these flowers being
surrounded with rubies and pearls; and at either corner is a large
sapphire. The interior shows pages of vellum, with names of subscribers
beautifully inscribed.

This room will, of course, be the one where the young Queen will receive
when she commences to reign.

From here I went to view a suite of apartments, formerly the property o
<|endoftext|>
***The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Divine Comedy of Dante***
Translanted by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!

Please take a look at the important information in this header.
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
electronic path open for the next readers. Do not remove this.

**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**

**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**

*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*

Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
further information is included below. We need your donations.

The Divine Comedy of Dante by H. W. Longfellow

August, 1997 [Etext #1004]

***The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Divine Comedy of Dante***
****This file should be named 1004.txt or 1004.zip*****

This etext was prepared by Dennis McCarthy, Atlanta, GA.

We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
of the official release dates, for time for better editing.

Please note: neither this list nor its contents are final till
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month. A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
and editing by those who wish to do so. To be sure you have an
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
in the first week of the next month. Since our ftp program has
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
new copy has at least one byte more or less.

Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work. The
fifty hours is one conservative estimate for how long it we take
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, co
pyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc. This
projected audience is one hundred million readers. If our value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-two text
files per month, or 384 more Etexts in 1997 for a total of 1000+
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
total should reach over 100 billion Etexts given away.

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Files by the December 31, 2001. [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
which is only 10% of the present number of computer users. 2001
should have at least twice as many computer users as that, so it
will require us reaching less than 5% of the users in 2001.

We need your donations more than ever!

All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/CMU": and are
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law. (CMU = Carnegie-
Mellon University).

For these and other matters, please mail to:

Project Gutenberg
P. O. Box 2782
Champaign, IL 61825

When all other email fails try our Executive Director:
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>

We would prefer to send you this information by email
(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).

******
If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please
FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
[Mac users, do NOT point and click. . .type]

ftp uiarchive.cso.uiuc.edu
login: anonymous
password: your@login
cd etext/etext90 through /etext96
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]
dir [to see files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
GET INDEX?00.GUT
for a list of books
and
GET NEW GUT for general information
and
MGET GUT* for newsletters.

**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
(Three Pages)

***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here? You know: lawyers.
They tell us you might sue us if
 there is something wrong with
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault. So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you. It also tells you how
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
this "Small Print!" statement. If you do not, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from. If you received this etext on a physical
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Carnegie-Mellon University (the "Project"). Among other
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
works. Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
medium they may be on may contain "Defects". Among other
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
[1] 
the Project (and any other party you may receive this
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from. If you received it
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy. If you received it electronically, such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS". NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1] Only give exact copies of it. Among other t
hings, this
 requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
 etext or this "small print!" statement. You may however,
 if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
 binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
 including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
 cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
 *EITHER*:

 [*] The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
 does *not* contain characters other than those
 intended by the author of the work, although tilde
 (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
 be used to convey punctuation intended by the
 author, and additional characters may be used to
 indicate hypertext links; OR

 [*] The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
 no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
 form by the program that displays the etext (as is
 the case, for instance, with most word processors);
 OR

 [*] You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
 no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
 etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
 or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2] Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
 "Small Print!" statement.

[3] Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
 net profits you derive calculated using the method you
 already use to calculate your applicable taxes. If you
 don't derive profits, no royalty is due. Royalties are
 payable to "Project Gutenberg Association/Carnegie-Mellon
 University" within the 60 days following each
 date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
 your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
you can think of. Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
Association / Carnegie-Mellon University".

*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04
.29.93*END*

This etext was prepared by Dennis McCarthy, Atlanta, GA.

THE DIVINE COMEDY

OF DANTE ALIGHIERI
(1265-1321)

TRANSLATED BY
HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW
(1807-1882)

CREDITS

The base text for this edition has been provided by Digital Dante,
a project sponsored by Columbia University's Institute for Learning
Technologies. Specific thanks goes to Jennifer Hogan (Project
Editor/Director), Tanya Larkin (Assistant to Editor), Robert W. Cole
(Proofreader/Assistant Editor), and Jennifer Cook (Proofreader).

The Digital Dante Project is a digital 'study space' for Dante studies and
scholarship. The project is multi-faceted and fluid by nature of the Web.
Digital Dante attempts to organize the information most significant for
students first engaging with Dante and scholars researching Dante. The
digital of Digital Dante incurs a new challenge to the student, the
scholar, and teacher, perusing the Web: to become proficient in the new
tools, e.g., Search, the Discussion Group, well enough to look beyond the
technology and delve into the content. For more information and access to
the project, please visit its web site at:
http://www.ilt.columbia.edu/projects/dante/

For this Project Gutenberg edition the e-text was rechecked. The editor
greatly thanks Dian McCarthy for her assistance in proofreading the
Paradiso. Also deserving praise are Herbert Fann for programming the text
editor "Desktop Tools/Edit" and the late August Dvorak for designing his
keyboard layout. Please refer to Project Gutenberg's e-text listings for
other editions or translations of 'The Divine Comedy.' Please refer to
the end of this file for supplemental materials.

Dennis McCarthy, July 1997
imprimatur@juno.com

CONTENTS

Inferno

 I. The Dark Forest. The Hill of Difficulty. The Panther,
 the Lion, and the Wolf. Virgil.
 II. The Descent. Dante's Protest and Virgil's Appeal.
 The Intercession of the Three Ladies Benedight.
 III. The Gate of Hell. The Inefficient or Indifferent.
 Pope Celestine V. The Shores of Acheron. Charon.
 The Earthquak
e and the Swoon.
 IV. The First Circle, Limbo: Virtuous Pagans and the Unbaptized.
 The Four Poets, Homer, Horace, Ovid, and Lucan. The Noble
 Castle of Philosophy.
 V. The Second Circle: The Wanton. Minos. The Infernal Hurricane.
 Francesca da Rimini.
 VI. The Third Circle: The Gluttonous. Cerberus. The Eternal Rain.
 Ciacco. Florence.
 VII. The Fourth Circle: The Avaricious and the Prodigal.
 Plutus. Fortune and her Wheel. The Fifth Circle:
 The Irascible and the Sullen. Styx.
 VIII. Phlegyas. Philippo Argenti. The Gate of the City of Dis.
 IX. The Furies and Medusa. The Angel. The City of Dis.
 The Sixth Circle: Heresiarchs.
 X. Farinata and Cavalcante de' Cavalcanti. Discourse on the
 Knowledge of the Damned.
 XI. The Broken Rocks. Pope Anastasius. General Description of
 the Inferno and its Divisions.
 XII. The Minotaur. The Seventh Circle: The Violent.
 The River Phlegethon. The Violent against their Neighbours.
 The Centaurs. Tyrants.
 XIII. The Wood of Thorns. The Harpies. The Violent
 against themselves. Suicides. Pier della Vigna.
 Lano and Jacopo da Sant' Andrea.
 XIV. The Sand Waste and the Rain of Fire. The Violent against God.
 Capaneus. The Statue of Time, and the Four Infernal Rivers.
 XV. The Violent against Nature. Brunetto Latini.
 XVI. Guidoguerra, Aldobrandi, and Rusticucci. Cataract of
 the River of Blood.
 XVII. Geryon. The Violent against Art. Usurers. Descent into
 the Abyss of Malebolge.
 XVIII. The Eighth Circle, Malebolge: The Fraudulent and
 the Malicious. The First Bolgia: Seducers and Panders.
 Venedico Caccianimico. Jason. The Second Bolgia:
 Flatterers. Allessio Interminelli. Thais.
 XIX. The Third Bolgia: Simoniacs. Pope Nicholas III.
 Dante's Reproof of corrupt Prelates.
 XX. The Fourth Bolgia: Soothsayers. Amphiaraus, Tiresias, Aruns,
 Manto, Eryphylus, Michael Scott, Guido Bonatti, and Asdente.
 Virgil reproaches Dante's Pity. Mantua's Foundation.
 XXI. The Fifth Bolgia: Peculators. The Elder of Santa Zita.
 Malacoda and other Devils.
 XXII. Ciampolo, Friar Gomita, and Michael
 Zanche.
 The Malabranche quarrel.
 XXIII. Escape from the Malabranche. The Sixth Bolgia: Hypocrites.
 Catalano and Loderingo. Caiaphas.
 XXIV. The Seventh Bolgia: Thieves. Vanni Fucci. Serpents.
 XXV. Vanni Fucci's Punishment. Agnello Brunelleschi,
 Buoso degli Abati, Puccio Sciancato, Cianfa de' Donati,
 and Guercio Cavalcanti.
 XXVI. The Eighth Bolgia: Evil Counsellors. Ulysses and Diomed.
 Ulysses' Last Voyage.
 XXVII. Guido da Montefeltro. His deception by Pope Boniface VIII.
XXVIII. The Ninth Bolgia: Schismatics. Mahomet and Ali.
 Pier da Medicina, Curio, Mosca, and Bertrand de Born.
 XXIX. Geri del Bello. The Tenth Bolgia: Alchemists.
 Griffolino d' Arezzo and Capocchino.
 XXX. Other Falsifiers or Forgers. Gianni Schicchi, Myrrha,
 Adam of Brescia, Potiphar's Wife, and Sinon of Troy.
 XXXI. The Giants, Nimrod, Ephialtes, and Antaeus.
 Descent to Cocytus.
 XXXII. The Ninth Circle: Traitors. The Frozen Lake of Cocytus.
 First Division, Caina: Traitors to their Kindred.
 Camicion de' Pazzi. Second Division, Antenora:
 Traitors to their Country. Dante questions
 Bocca degli Abati. Buoso da Duera.
XXXIII. Count Ugolino and the Archbishop Ruggieri. The Death
 of Count Ugolino's Sons. Third Division of the Ninth Circle,
 Ptolomaea: Traitors to their Friends. Friar Alberigo,
 Branco d' Oria.
 XXXIV. Fourth Division of the Ninth Circle, the Judecca:
 Traitors to their Lords and Benefactors. Lucifer,
 Judas Iscariot, Brutus, and Cassius. The Chasm of Lethe.
 The Ascent.

Purgatorio

 I. The Shores of Purgatory. The Four Stars. Cato of Utica.
 The Rush.
 II. The Celestial Pilot. Casella. The Departure.
 III. Discourse on the Limits of Reason. The Foot of the Mountain.
 Those who died in Contumacy of Holy Church. Manfredi.
 IV. Farther Ascent. Nature of the Mountain. The Negligent,
 who postponed Repentance till the last Hour. Belacqua.
 V. Those who died by Violence, but repentant.
 Buonconte di Monfeltro. La Pia.
 VI. Dante's Inquiry on Prayers for the Dead. Sordello. Italy.
 VII. The Valley of Flowers. Negligent Pr
inces.
 VIII. The Guardian Angels and the Serpent. Nino di Gallura.
 The Three Stars. Currado Malaspina.
 IX. Dante's Dream of the Eagle. The Gate of Purgatory and
 the Angel. Seven P's. The Keys.
 X. The Needle's Eye. The First Circle: The Proud.
 The Sculptures on the Wall.
 XI. The Humble Prayer. Omberto di Santafiore.
 Oderisi d' Agobbio. Provenzan Salvani.
 XII. The Sculptures on the Pavement. Ascent to the Second Circle.
 XIII. The Second Circle: The Envious. Sapia of Siena.
 XIV. Guido del Duca and Renier da Calboli. Cities of
 the Arno Valley. Denunciation of Stubbornness.
 XV. The Third Circle: The Irascible. Dante's Visions. The Smoke.
 XVI. Marco Lombardo. Lament over the State of the World.
 XVII. Dante's Dream of Anger. The Fourth Circle: The Slothful.
 Virgil's Discourse of Love.
 XVIII. Virgil further discourses of Love and Free Will.
 The Abbot of San Zeno.
 XIX. Dante's Dream of the Siren. The Fifth Circle:
 The Avaricious and Prodigal. Pope Adrian V.
 XX. Hugh Capet. Corruption of the French Crown.
 Prophecy of the Abduction of Pope Boniface VIII and
 the Sacrilege of Philip the Fair. The Earthquake.
 XXI. The Poet Statius. Praise of Virgil.
 XXII. Statius' Denunciation of Avarice. The Sixth Circle:
 The Gluttonous. The Mystic Tree.
 XXIII. Forese. Reproof of immodest Florentine Women.
 XXIV. Buonagiunta da Lucca. Pope Martin IV, and others.
 Inquiry into the State of Poetry.
 XXV. Discourse of Statius on Generation. The Seventh Circle:
 The Wanton.
 XXVI. Sodomites. Guido Guinicelli and Arnaldo Daniello.
 XXVII. The Wall of Fire and the Angel of God. Dante's Sleep
 upon the Stairway, and his Dream of Leah and Rachel.
 Arrival at the Terrestrial Paradise.
XXVIII. The River Lethe. Matilda. The Nature of
 the Terrestrial Paradise.
 XXIX. The Triumph of the Church.
 XXX. Virgil's Departure. Beatrice. Dante's Shame.
 XXXI. Reproaches of Beatrice and Confession of Dante.
 The Passage of Lethe. The Seven Virtues. The Griffon.
 XXXII. The Tree of Knowledge. Allegory of the Chariot.
XXXIII. Lament over 
the State of the Church. Final Reproaches
 of Beatrice. The River Eunoe.

Paradiso

 I. The Ascent to the First Heaven. The Sphere of Fire.
 II. The First Heaven, the Moon: Spirits who, having taken
 Sacred Vows, were forced to violate them. The Lunar Spots.
 III. Piccarda Donati and the Empress Constance.
 IV. Questionings of the Soul and of Broken Vows.
 V. Discourse of Beatrice on Vows and Compensations.
 Ascent to the Second Heaven, Mercury: Spirits who for
 the Love of Fame achieved great Deeds.
 VI. Justinian. The Roman Eagle. The Empire. Romeo.
 VII. Beatrice's Discourse of the Crucifixion, the Incarnation,
 the Immortality of the Soul, and the Resurrection of the Body.
 VIII. Ascent to the Third Heaven, Venus: Lovers. Charles Martel.
 Discourse on diverse Natures.
 IX. Cunizza da Romano, Folco of Marseilles, and Rahab.
 Neglect of the Holy Land.
 X. The Fourth Heaven, the Sun: Theologians and Fathers of
 the Church. The First Circle. St. Thomas of Aquinas.
 XI. St. Thomas recounts the Life of St. Francis. Lament over
 the State of the Dominican Order.
 XII. St. Buonaventura recounts the Life of St. Dominic. Lament
 over the State of the Franciscan Order. The Second Circle.
 XIII. Of the Wisdom of Solomon. St. Thomas reproaches
 Dante's Judgement.
 XIV. The Third Circle. Discourse on the Resurrection of the Flesh.
 The Fifth Heaven, Mars: Martyrs and Crusaders who died fighting
 for the true Faith. The Celestial Cross.
 XV. Cacciaguida. Florence in the Olden Time.
 XVI. Dante's Noble Ancestry. Cacciaguida's Discourse of
 the Great Florentines.
 XVII. Cacciaguida's Prophecy of Dante's Banishment.
 XVIII. The Sixth Heaven, Jupiter: Righteous Kings and Rulers.
 The Celestial Eagle. Dante's Invectives against
 ecclesiastical Avarice.
 XIX. The Eagle discourses of Salvation, Faith, and Virtue.
 Condemnation of the vile Kings of A.D. 1300.
 XX. The Eagle praises the Righteous Kings of old.
 Benevolence of the Divine Will.
 XXI. The Seventh Heaven, Saturn: The Contemplative.
 The Celestial Stairway. St. Peter Dam
iano. His Invectives
 against the Luxury of the Prelates.
 XXII. St. Benedict. His Lamentation over the Corruption of Monks.
 The Eighth Heaven, the Fixed Stars.
 XXIII. The Triumph of Christ. The Virgin Mary. The Apostles.
 Gabriel.
 XXIV. The Radiant Wheel. St. Peter examines Dante on Faith.
 XXV. The Laurel Crown. St. James examines Dante on Hope.
 Dante's Blindness.
 XXVI. St. John examines Dante on Charity. Dante's Sight. Adam.
 XXVII. St. Peter's reproof of bad Popes. The Ascent to
 the Ninth Heaven, the 'Primum Mobile.'
XXVIII. God and the Angelic Hierarchies.
 XXIX. Beatrice's Discourse of the Creation of the Angels,
 and of the Fall of Lucifer. Her Reproof of Foolish and
 Avaricious Preachers.
 XXX. The Tenth Heaven, or Empyrean. The River of Light.
 The Two Courts of Heaven. The White Rose of Paradise.
 The great Throne.
 XXXI. The Glory of Paradise. Departure of Beatrice. St. Bernard.
 XXXII. St. Bernard points out the Saints in the White Rose.
XXXIII. Prayer to the Virgin. The Threefold Circle of the Trinity.
 Mystery of the Divine and Human Nature.

Incipit Comoedia Dantis Alagherii,
Florentini natione, non moribus.

The Divine Comedy
translated by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
(e-text courtesy ILT's Digital Dante Project)

INFERNO

Inferno: Canto I

Midway upon the journey of our life
 I found myself within a forest dark,
 For the straightforward pathway had been lost.

Ah me! how hard a thing it is to say
 What was this forest savage, rough, and stern,
 Which in the very thought renews the fear.

So bitter is it, death is little more;
 But of the good to treat, which there I found,
 Speak will I of the other things I saw there.

I cannot well repeat how there I entered,
 So full was I of slumber at the moment
 In which I had abandoned the true way.

But after I had reached a mountain's foot,
 At that point where the valley terminated,
 Which had with consternation pierced my heart,

Upward I looked, and I beheld its shoulders,
 Vested already with that planet's rays
 Which leadeth others right by ever
y road.

Then was the fear a little quieted
 That in my heart's lake had endured throughout
 The night, which I had passed so piteously.

And even as he, who, with distressful breath,
 Forth issued from the sea upon the shore,
 Turns to the water perilous and gazes;

So did my soul, that still was fleeing onward,
 Turn itself back to re-behold the pass
 Which never yet a living person left.

After my weary body I had rested,
 The way resumed I on the desert <DW72>,
 So that the firm foot ever was the lower.

And lo! almost where the ascent began,
 A panther light and swift exceedingly,
 Which with a spotted skin was covered o'er!

And never moved she from before my face,
 Nay, rather did impede so much my way,
 That many times I to return had turned.

The time was the beginning of the morning,
 And up the sun was mounting with those stars
 That with him were, what time the Love Divine

At first in motion set those beauteous things;
 So were to me occasion of good hope,
 The variegated skin of that wild beast,

The hour of time, and the delicious season;
 But not so much, that did not give me fear
 A lion's aspect which appeared to me.

He seemed as if against me he were coming
 With head uplifted, and with ravenous hunger,
 So that it seemed the air was afraid of him;

And a she-wolf, that with all hungerings
 Seemed to be laden in her meagreness,
 And many folk has caused to live forlorn!

She brought upon me so much heaviness,
 With the affright that from her aspect came,
 That I the hope relinquished of the height.

And as he is who willingly acquires,
 And the time comes that causes him to lose,
 Who weeps in all his thoughts and is despondent,

E'en such made me that beast withouten peace,
 Which, coming on against me by degrees
 Thrust me back thither where the sun is silent.

While I was rushing downward to the lowland,
 Before mine eyes did one present himself,
 Who seemed from long-continued silence hoarse.

When I beheld him in the desert vast,
 "Have pity on me," unto him I cried,
 "Whiche'er thou art,
 or shade or real man!"

He answered me: "Not man; man once I was,
 And both my parents were of Lombardy,
 And Mantuans by country both of them.

'Sub Julio' was I born, though it was late,
 And lived at Rome under the good Augustus,
 During the time of false and lying gods.

A poet was I, and I sang that just
 Son of Anchises, who came forth from Troy,
 After that Ilion the superb was burned.

But thou, why goest thou back to such annoyance?
 Why climb'st thou not the Mount Delectable,
 Which is the source and cause of every joy?"

"Now, art thou that Virgilius and that fountain
 Which spreads abroad so wide a river of speech?"
 I made response to him with bashful forehead.

"O, of the other poets honour and light,
 Avail me the long study and great love
 That have impelled me to explore thy volume!

Thou art my master, and my author thou,
 Thou art alone the one from whom I took
 The beautiful style that has done honour to me.

Behold the beast, for which I have turned back;
 Do thou protect me from her, famous Sage,
 For she doth make my veins and pulses tremble."

"Thee it behoves to take another road,"
 Responded he, when he beheld me weeping,
 "If from this savage place thou wouldst escape;

Because this beast, at which thou criest out,
 Suffers not any one to pass her way,
 But so doth harass him, that she destroys him;

And has a nature so malign and ruthless,
 That never doth she glut her greedy will,
 And after food is hungrier than before.

Many the animals with whom she weds,
 And more they shall be still, until the Greyhound
 Comes, who shall make her perish in her pain.

He shall not feed on either earth or pelf,
 But upon wisdom, and on love and virtue;
 'Twixt Feltro and Feltro shall his nation be;

Of that low Italy shall he be the saviour,
 On whose account the maid Camilla died,
 Euryalus, Turnus, Nisus, of their wounds;

Through every city shall he hunt her down,
 Until he shall have driven her back to Hell,
 There from whence envy first did let her loose.

Therefore I think and judge it for t
hy best
 Thou follow me, and I will be thy guide,
 And lead thee hence through the eternal place,

Where thou shalt hear the desperate lamentations,
 Shalt see the ancient spirits disconsolate,
 Who cry out each one for the second death;

And thou shalt see those who contented are
 Within the fire, because they hope to come,
 Whene'er it may be, to the blessed people;

To whom, then, if thou wishest to ascend,
 A soul shall be for that than I more worthy;
 With her at my departure I will leave thee;

Because that Emperor, who reigns above,
 In that I was rebellious to his law,
 Wills that through me none come into his city.

He governs everywhere, and there he reigns;
 There is his city and his lofty throne;
 O happy he whom thereto he elects!"

And I to him: "Poet, I thee entreat,
 By that same God whom thou didst never know,
 So that I may escape this woe and worse,

Thou wouldst conduct me there where thou hast said,
 That I may see the portal of Saint Peter,
 And those thou makest so disconsolate."

Then he moved on, and I behind him followed.

Inferno: Canto II

Day was departing, and the embrowned air
 Released the animals that are on earth
 From their fatigues; and I the only one

Made myself ready to sustain the war,
 Both of the way and likewise of the woe,
 Which memory that errs not shall retrace.

O Muses, O high genius, now assist me!
 O memory, that didst write down what I saw,
 Here thy nobility shall be manifest!

And I began: "Poet, who guidest me,
 Regard my manhood, if it be sufficient,
 Ere to the arduous pass thou dost confide me.

Thou sayest, that of Silvius the parent,
 While yet corruptible, unto the world
 Immortal went, and was there bodily.

But if the adversary of all evil
 Was courteous, thinking of the high effect
 That issue would from him, and who, and what,

To men of intellect unmeet it seems not;
 For he was of great Rome, and of her empire
 In the empyreal heaven as father chosen;

The which and what, wishing to speak the truth,
 Were stablished as the holy place, wherein
 Sit
s the successor of the greatest Peter.

Upon this journey, whence thou givest him vaunt,
 Things did he hear, which the occasion were
 Both of his victory and the papal mantle.

Thither went afterwards the Chosen Vessel,
 To bring back comfort thence unto that Faith,
 Which of salvation's way is the beginning.

But I, why thither come, or who concedes it?
 I not Aeneas am, I am not Paul,
 Nor I, nor others, think me worthy of it.

Therefore, if I resign myself to come,
 I fear the coming may be ill-advised;
 Thou'rt wise, and knowest better than I speak."

And as he is, who unwills what he willed,
 And by new thoughts doth his intention change,
 So that from his design he quite withdraws,

Such I became, upon that dark hillside,
 Because, in thinking, I consumed the emprise,
 Which was so very prompt in the beginning.

"If I have well thy language understood,"
 Replied that shade of the Magnanimous,
 "Thy soul attainted is with cowardice,

Which many times a man encumbers so,
 It turns him back from honoured enterprise,
 As false sight doth a beast, when he is shy.

That thou mayst free thee from this apprehension,
 I'll tell thee why I came, and what I heard
 At the first moment when I grieved for thee.

Among those was I who are in suspense,
 And a fair, saintly Lady called to me
 In such wise, I besought her to command me.

Her eyes where shining brighter than the Star;
 And she began to say, gentle and low,
 With voice angelical, in her own language:

'O spirit courteous of Mantua,
 Of whom the fame still in the world endures,
 And shall endure, long-lasting as the world;

A friend of mine, and not the friend of fortune,
 Upon the desert <DW72> is so impeded
 Upon his way, that he has turned through terror,

And may, I fear, already be so lost,
 That I too late have risen to his succour,
 From that which I have heard of him in Heaven.

Bestir thee now, and with thy speech ornate,
 And with what needful is for his release,
 Assist him so, that I may be consoled.

Beatrice am I, who do bid thee go;
 I come from
 there, where I would fain return;
 Love moved me, which compelleth me to speak.

When I shall be in presence of my Lord,
 Full often will I praise thee unto him.'
 Then paused she, and thereafter I began:

'O Lady of virtue, thou alone through whom
 The human race exceedeth all contained
 Within the heaven that has the lesser circles,

So grateful unto me is thy commandment,
 To obey, if 'twere already done, were late;
 No farther need'st thou ope to me thy wish.

But the cause tell me why thou dost not shun
 The here descending down into this centre,
 From the vast place thou burnest to return to.'

'Since thou wouldst fain so inwardly discern,
 Briefly will I relate,' she answered me,
 'Why I am not afraid to enter here.

Of those things only should one be afraid
 Which have the power of doing others harm;
 Of the rest, no; because they are not fearful.

God in his mercy such created me
 That misery of yours attains me not,
 Nor any flame assails me of this burning.

A gentle Lady is in Heaven, who grieves
 At this impediment, to which I send thee,
 So that stern judgment there above is broken.

In her entreaty she besought Lucia,
 And said, "Thy faithful one now stands in need
 Of thee, and unto thee I recommend him."

Lucia, foe of all that cruel is,
 Hastened away, and came unto the place
 Where I was sitting with the ancient Rachel.

"Beatrice" said she, "the true praise of God,
 Why succourest thou not him, who loved thee so,
 For thee he issued from the vulgar herd?

Dost thou not hear the pity of his plaint?
 Dost thou not see the death that combats him
 Beside that flood, where ocean has no vaunt?"

Never were persons in the world so swift
 To work their weal and to escape their woe,
 As I, after such words as these were uttered,

Came hither downward from my blessed seat,
 Confiding in thy dignified discourse,
 Which honours thee, and those who've listened to it.'

After she thus had spoken unto me,
 Weeping, her shining eyes she turned away;
 Whereby she made me swifter in my coming;

And unto thee I
 came, as she desired;
 I have delivered thee from that wild beast,
 Which barred the beautiful mountain's short ascent.

What is it, then? Why, why dost thou delay?
 Why is such baseness bedded in thy heart?
 Daring and hardihood why hast thou not,

Seeing that three such Ladies benedight
 Are caring for thee in the court of Heaven,
 And so much good my speech doth promise thee?"

Even as the flowerets, by nocturnal chill,
 Bowed down and closed, when the sun whitens them,
 Uplift themselves all open on their stems;

Such I became with my exhausted strength,
 And such good courage to my heart there coursed,
 That I began, like an intrepid person:

"O she compassionate, who succoured me,
 And courteous thou, who hast obeyed so soon
 The words of truth which she addressed to thee!

Thou hast my heart so with desire disposed
 To the adventure, with these words of thine,
 That to my first intent I have returned.

Now go, for one sole will is in us both,
 Thou Leader, and thou Lord, and Master thou."
 Thus said I to him; and when he had moved,

I entered on the deep and savage way.

Inferno: Canto III

"Through me the way is to the city dolent;
 Through me the way is to eternal dole;
 Through me the way among the people lost.

Justice incited my sublime Creator;
 Created me divine Omnipotence,
 The highest Wisdom and the primal Love.

Before me there were no created things,
 Only eterne, and I eternal last.
 All hope abandon, ye who enter in!"

These words in sombre colour I beheld
 Written upon the summit of a gate;
 Whence I: "Their sense is, Master, hard to me!"

And he to me, as one experienced:
 "Here all suspicion needs must be abandoned,
 All cowardice must needs be here extinct.

We to the place have come, where I have told thee
 Thou shalt behold the people dolorous
 Who have foregone the good of intellect."

And after he had laid his hand on mine
 With joyful mien, whence I was comforted,
 He led me in among the secret things.

There sighs, complaints, and ululations loud
 Resounded through the air without 
a star,
 Whence I, at the beginning, wept thereat.

Languages diverse, horrible dialects,
 Accents of anger, words of agony,
 And voices high and hoarse, with sound of hands,

Made up a tumult that goes whirling on
 For ever in that air for ever black,
 Even as the sand doth, when the whirlwind breathes.

And I, who had my head with horror bound,
 Said: "Master, what is this which now I hear?
 What folk is this, which seems by pain so vanquished?"

And he to me: "This miserable mode
 Maintain the melancholy souls of those
 Who lived withouten infamy or praise.

Commingled are they with that caitiff choir
 Of Angels, who have not rebellious been,
 Nor faithful were to God, but were for self.

The heavens expelled them, not to be less fair;
 Nor them the nethermore abyss receives,
 For glory none the damned would have from them."

And I: "O Master, what so grievous is
 To these, that maketh them lament so sore?"
 He answered: "I will tell thee very briefly.

These have no longer any hope of death;
 And this blind life of theirs is so debased,
 They envious are of every other fate.

No fame of them the world permits to be;
 Misericord and Justice both disdain them.
 Let us not speak of them, but look, and pass."

And I, who looked again, beheld a banner,
 Which, whirling round, ran on so rapidly,
 That of all pause it seemed to me indignant;

And after it there came so long a train
 Of people, that I ne'er would have believed
 That ever Death so many had undone.

When some among them I had recognised,
 I looked, and I beheld the shade of him
 Who made through cowardice the great refusal.

Forthwith I comprehended, and was certain,
 That this the sect was of the caitiff wretches
 Hateful to God and to his enemies.

These miscreants, who never were alive,
 Were naked, and were stung exceedingly
 By gadflies and by hornets that were there.

These did their faces irrigate with blood,
 Which, with their tears commingled, at their feet
 By the disgusting worms was gathered up.

And when to gazing farther I betook me.
 Peo
ple I saw on a great river's bank;
 Whence said I: "Master, now vouchsafe to me,

That I may know who these are, and what law
 Makes them appear so ready to pass over,
 As I discern athwart the dusky light."

And he to me: "These things shall all be known
 To thee, as soon as we our footsteps stay
 Upon the dismal shore of Acheron."

Then with mine eyes ashamed and downward cast,
 Fearing my words might irksome be to him,
 From speech refrained I till we reached the river.

And lo! towards us coming in a boat
 An old man, hoary with the hair of eld,
 Crying: "Woe unto you, ye souls depraved!

Hope nevermore to look upon the heavens;
 I come to lead you to the other shore,
 To the eternal shades in heat and frost.

And thou, that yonder standest, living soul,
 Withdraw thee from these people, who are dead!"
 But when he saw that I did not withdraw,

He said: "By other ways, by other ports
 Thou to the shore shalt come, not here, for passage;
 A lighter vessel needs must carry thee."

And unto him the Guide: "Vex thee not, Charon;
 It is so willed there where is power to do
 That which is willed; and farther question not."

Thereat were quieted the fleecy cheeks
 Of him the ferryman of the livid fen,
 Who round about his eyes had wheels of flame.

But all those souls who weary were and naked
 Their colour changed and gnashed their teeth together,
 As soon as they had heard those cruel words.

God they blasphemed and their progenitors,
 The human race, the place, the time, the seed
 Of their engendering and of their birth!

Thereafter all together they drew back,
 Bitterly weeping, to the accursed shore,
 Which waiteth every man who fears not God.

Charon the demon, with the eyes of glede,
 Beckoning to them, collects them all together,
 Beats with his oar whoever lags behind.

As in the autumn-time the leaves fall off,
 First one and then another, till the branch
 Unto the earth surrenders all its spoils;

In similar wise the evil seed of Adam
 Throw themselves from that margin one by one,
 At signals, as a bird un
to its lure.

So they depart across the dusky wave,
 And ere upon the other side they land,
 Again on this side a new troop assembles.

"My son," the courteous Master said to me,
 "All those who perish in the wrath of God
 Here meet together out of every land;

And ready are they to pass o'er the river,
 Because celestial Justice spurs them on,
 So that their fear is turned into desire.

This way there never passes a good soul;
 And hence if Charon doth complain of thee,
 Well mayst thou know now what his speech imports."

This being finished, all the dusk champaign
 Trembled so violently, that of that terror
 The recollection bathes me still with sweat.

The land of tears gave forth a blast of wind,
 And fulminated a vermilion light,
 Which overmastered in me every sense,

And as a man whom sleep hath seized I fell.

Inferno: Canto IV

Broke the deep lethargy within my head
 A heavy thunder, so that I upstarted,
 Like to a person who by force is wakened;

And round about I moved my rested eyes,
 Uprisen erect, and steadfastly I gazed,
 To recognise the place wherein I was.

True is it, that upon the verge I found me
 Of the abysmal valley dolorous,
 That gathers thunder of infinite ululations.

Obscure, profound it was, and nebulous,
 So that by fixing on its depths my sight
 Nothing whatever I discerned therein.

"Let us descend now into the blind world,"
 Began the Poet, pallid utterly;
 "I will be first, and thou shalt second be."

And I, who of his colour was aware,
 Said: "How shall I come, if thou art afraid,
 Who'rt wont to be a comfort to my fears?"

And he to me: "The anguish of the people
 Who are below here in my face depicts
 That pity which for terror thou hast taken.

Let us go on, for the long way impels us."
 Thus he went in, and thus he made me enter
 The foremost circle that surrounds the abyss.

There, as it seemed to me from listening,
 Were lamentations none, but only sighs,
 That tremble made the everlasting air.

And this arose from sorrow without torment,
 Which the crowds had, that many 
were and great,
 Of infants and of women and of men.

To me the Master good: "Thou dost not ask
 What spirits these, which thou beholdest, are?
 Now will I have thee know, ere thou go farther,

That they sinned not; and if they merit had,
 'Tis not enough, because they had not baptism
 Which is the portal of the Faith thou holdest;

And if they were before Christianity,
 In the right manner they adored not God;
 And among such as these am I myself.

For such defects, and not for other guilt,
 Lost are we and are only so far punished,
 That without hope we live on in desire."

Great grief seized on my heart when this I heard,
 Because some people of much worthiness
 I knew, who in that Limbo were suspended.

"Tell me, my Master, tell me, thou my Lord,"
 Began I, with desire of being certain
 Of that Faith which o'ercometh every error,

"Came any one by his own merit hence,
 Or by another's, who was blessed thereafter?"
 And he, who understood my covert speech,

Replied: "I was a novice in this state,
 When I saw hither come a Mighty One,
 With sign of victory incoronate.

Hence he drew forth the shade of the First Parent,
 And that of his son Abel, and of Noah,
 Of Moses the lawgiver, and the obedient

Abraham, patriarch, and David, king,
 Israel with his father and his children,
 And Rachel, for whose sake he did so much,

And others many, and he made them blessed;
 And thou must know, that earlier than these
 Never were any human spirits saved."

We ceased not to advance because he spake,
 But still were passing onward through the forest,
 The forest, say I, of thick-crowded ghosts.

Not very far as yet our way had gone
 This side the summit, when I saw a fire
 That overcame a hemisphere of darkness.

We were a little distant from it still,
 But not so far that I in part discerned not
 That honourable people held that place.

"O thou who honourest every art and science,
 Who may these be, which such great honour have,
 That from the fashion of the rest it parts them?"

And he to me: "The honourable name,
 That s
ounds of them above there in thy life,
 Wins grace in Heaven, that so advances them."

In the mean time a voice was heard by me:
 "All honour be to the pre-eminent Poet;
 His shade returns again, that was departed."

After the voice had ceased and quiet was,
 Four mighty shades I saw approaching us;
 Semblance had they nor sorrowful nor glad.

To say to me began my gracious Master:
 "Him with that falchion in his hand behold,
 Who comes before the three, even as their lord.

That one is Homer, Poet sovereign;
 He who comes next is Horace, the satirist;
 The third is Ovid, and the last is Lucan.

Because to each of these with me applies
 The name that solitary voice proclaimed,
 They do me honour, and in that do well."

Thus I beheld assemble the fair school
 Of that lord of the song pre-eminent,
 Who o'er the others like an eagle soars.

When they together had discoursed somewhat,
 They turned to me with signs of salutation,
 And on beholding this, my Master smiled;

And more of honour still, much more, they did me,
 In that they made me one of their own band;
 So that the sixth was I, 'mid so much wit.

Thus we went on as far as to the light,
 Things saying 'tis becoming to keep silent,
 As was the saying of them where I was.

We came unto a noble castle's foot,
 Seven times encompassed with lofty walls,
 Defended round by a fair rivulet;

This we passed over even as firm ground;
 Through portals seven I entered with these Sages;
 We came into a meadow of fresh verdure.

People were there with solemn eyes and slow,
 Of great authority in their countenance;
 They spake but seldom, and with gentle voices.

Thus we withdrew ourselves upon one side
 Into an opening luminous and lofty,
 So that they all of them were visible.

There opposite, upon the green enamel,
 Were pointed out to me the mighty spirits,
 Whom to have seen I feel myself exalted.

I saw Electra with companions many,
 'Mongst whom I knew both Hector and Aeneas,
 Caesar in armour with gerfalcon eyes;

I saw Camilla and Penthesilea
 On the other side,
 and saw the King Latinus,
 Who with Lavinia his daughter sat;

I saw that Brutus who drove Tarquin forth,
 Lucretia, Julia, Marcia, and Cornelia,
 And saw alone, apart, the Saladin.

When I had lifted up my brows a little,
 The Master I beheld of those who know,
 Sit with his philosophic family.

All gaze upon him, and all do him honour.
 There I beheld both Socrates and Plato,
 Who nearer him before the others stand;

Democritus, who puts the world on chance,
 Diogenes, Anaxagoras, and Thales,
 Zeno, Empedocles, and Heraclitus;

Of qualities I saw the good collector,
 Hight Dioscorides; and Orpheus saw I,
 Tully and Livy, and moral Seneca,

Euclid, geometrician, and Ptolemy,
 Galen, Hippocrates, and Avicenna,
 Averroes, who the great Comment made.

I cannot all of them pourtray in full,
 Because so drives me onward the long theme,
 That many times the word comes short of fact.

The sixfold company in two divides;
 Another way my sapient Guide conducts me
 Forth from the quiet to the air that trembles;

And to a place I come where nothing shines.

Inferno: Canto V

Thus I descended out of the first circle
 Down to the second, that less space begirds,
 And so much greater dole, that goads to wailing.

There standeth Minos horribly, and snarls;
 Examines the transgressions at the entrance;
 Judges, and sends according as he girds him.

I say, that when the spirit evil-born
 Cometh before him, wholly it confesses;
 And this discriminator of transgressions

Seeth what place in Hell is meet for it;
 Girds himself with his tail as many times
 As grades he wishes it should be thrust down.

Always before him many of them stand;
 They go by turns each one unto the judgment;
 They speak, and hear, and then are downward hurled.

"O thou, that to this dolorous hostelry
 Comest," said Minos to me, when he saw me,
 Leaving the practice of so great an office,

"Look how thou enterest, and in whom thou trustest;
 Let not the portal's amplitude deceive thee."
 And unto him my Guide: "Why criest thou too?

Do not impede his journ
ey fate-ordained;
 It is so willed there where is power to do
 That which is willed; and ask no further question."

And now begin the dolesome notes to grow
 Audible unto me; now am I come
 There where much lamentation strikes upon me.

I came into a place mute of all light,
 Which bellows as the sea does in a tempest,
 If by opposing winds 't is combated.

The infernal hurricane that never rests
 Hurtles the spirits onward in its rapine;
 Whirling them round, and smiting, it molests them.

When they arrive before the precipice,
 There are the shrieks, the plaints, and the laments,
 There they blaspheme the puissance divine.

I understood that unto such a torment
 The carnal malefactors were condemned,
 Who reason subjugate to appetite.

And as the wings of starlings bear them on
 In the cold season in large band and full,
 So doth that blast the spirits maledict;

It hither, thither, downward, upward, drives them;
 No hope doth comfort them for evermore,
 Not of repose, but even of lesser pain.

And as the cranes go chanting forth their lays,
 Making in air a long line of themselves,
 So saw I coming, uttering lamentations,

Shadows borne onward by the aforesaid stress.
 Whereupon said I: "Master, who are those
 People, whom the black air so castigates?"

"The first of those, of whom intelligence
 Thou fain wouldst have," then said he unto me,
 "The empress was of many languages.

To sensual vices she was so abandoned,
 That lustful she made licit in her law,
 To remove the blame to which she had been led.

She is Semiramis, of whom we read
 That she succeeded Ninus, and was his spouse;
 She held the land which now the Sultan rules.

The next is she who killed herself for love,
 And broke faith with the ashes of Sichaeus;
 Then Cleopatra the voluptuous."

Helen I saw, for whom so many ruthless
 Seasons revolved; and saw the great Achilles,
 Who at the last hour combated with Love.

Paris I saw, Tristan; and more than a thousand
 Shades did he name and point out with his finger,
 Whom Love had separated from our 
life.

After that I had listened to my Teacher,
 Naming the dames of eld and cavaliers,
 Pity prevailed, and I was nigh bewildered.

And I began: "O Poet, willingly
 Speak would I to those two, who go together,
 And seem upon the wind to be so light."

And, he to me: "Thou'lt mark, when they shall be
 Nearer to us; and then do thou implore them
 By love which leadeth them, and they will come."

Soon as the wind in our direction sways them,
 My voice uplift I: "O ye weary souls!
 Come speak to us, if no one interdicts it."

As turtle-doves, called onward by desire,
 With open and steady wings to the sweet nest
 Fly through the air by their volition borne,

So came they from the band where Dido is,
 Approaching us athwart the air malign,
 So strong was the affectionate appeal.

"O living creature gracious and benignant,
 Who visiting goest through the purple air
 Us, who have stained the world incarnadine,

If were the King of the Universe our friend,
 We would pray unto him to give thee peace,
 Since thou hast pity on our woe perverse.

Of what it pleases thee to hear and speak,
 That will we hear, and we will speak to you,
 While silent is the wind, as it is now.

Sitteth the city, wherein I was born,
 Upon the sea-shore where the Po descends
 To rest in peace with all his retinue.

Love, that on gentle heart doth swiftly seize,
 Seized this man for the person beautiful
 That was ta'en from me, and still the mode offends me.

Love, that exempts no one beloved from loving,
 Seized me with pleasure of this man so strongly,
 That, as thou seest, it doth not yet desert me;

Love has conducted us unto one death;
 Caina waiteth him who quenched our life!"
 These words were borne along from them to us.

As soon as I had heard those souls tormented,
 I bowed my face, and so long held it down
 Until the Poet said to me: "What thinkest?"

When I made answer, I began: "Alas!
 How many pleasant thoughts, how much desire,
 Conducted these unto the dolorous pass!"

Then unto them I turned me, and I spake,
 And I began: "Thine 
agonies, Francesca,
 Sad and compassionate to weeping make me.

But tell me, at the time of those sweet sighs,
 By what and in what manner Love conceded,
 That you should know your dubious desires?"

And she to me: "There is no greater sorrow
 Than to be mindful of the happy time
 In misery, and that thy Teacher knows.

But, if to recognise the earliest root
 Of love in us thou hast so great desire,
 I will do even as he who weeps and speaks.

One day we reading were for our delight
 Of Launcelot, how Love did him enthral.
 Alone we were and without any fear.

Full many a time our eyes together drew
 That reading, and drove the colour from our faces;
 But one point only was it that o'ercame us.

When as we read of the much-longed-for smile
 Being by such a noble lover kissed,
 This one, who ne'er from me shall be divided,

Kissed me upon the mouth all palpitating.
 Galeotto was the book and he who wrote it.
 That day no farther did we read therein."

And all the while one spirit uttered this,
 The other one did weep so, that, for pity,
 I swooned away as if I had been dying,

And fell, even as a dead body falls.

Inferno: Canto VI

At the return of consciousness, that closed
 Before the pity of those two relations,
 Which utterly with sadness had confused me,

New torments I behold, and new tormented
 Around me, whichsoever way I move,
 And whichsoever way I turn, and gaze.

In the third circle am I of the rain
 Eternal, maledict, and cold, and heavy;
 Its law and quality are never new.

Huge hail, and water sombre-hued, and snow,
 Athwart the tenebrous air pour down amain;
 Noisome the earth is, that receiveth this.

Cerberus, monster cruel and uncouth,
 With his three gullets like a dog is barking
 Over the people that are there submerged.

Red eyes he has, and unctuous beard and black,
 And belly large, and armed with claws his hands;
 He rends the spirits, flays, and quarters them.

Howl the rain maketh them like unto dogs;
 One side they make a shelter for the other;
 Oft turn themselves the wretched reproba
tes.

When Cerberus perceived us, the great worm!
 His mouths he opened, and displayed his tusks;
 Not a limb had he that was motionless.

And my Conductor, with his spans extended,
 Took of the earth, and with his fists well filled,
 He threw it into those rapacious gullets.

Such as that dog is, who by barking craves,
 And quiet grows soon as his food he gnaws,
 For to devour it he but thinks and struggles,

The like became those muzzles filth-begrimed
 Of Cerberus the demon, who so thunders
 Over the souls that they would fain be deaf.

We passed across the shadows, which subdues
 The heavy rain-storm, and we placed our feet
 Upon their vanity that person seems.

They all were lying prone upon the earth,
 Excepting one, who sat upright as soon
 As he beheld us passing on before him.

"O thou that art conducted through this Hell,"
 He said to me, "recall me, if thou canst;
 Thyself wast made before I was unmade."

And I to him: "The anguish which thou hast
 Perhaps doth draw thee out of my remembrance,
 So that it seems not I have ever seen thee.

But tell me who thou art, that in so doleful
 A place art put, and in such punishment,
 If some are greater, none is so displeasing."

And he to me: "Thy city, which is full
 Of envy so that now the sack runs over,
 Held me within it in the life serene.

You citizens were wont to call me Ciacco;
 For the pernicious sin of gluttony
 I, as thou seest, am battered by this rain.

And I, sad soul, am not the only one,
 For all these suffer the like penalty
 For the like sin;" and word no more spake he.

I answered him: "Ciacco, thy wretchedness
 Weighs on me so that it to weep invites me;
 But tell me, if thou knowest, to what shall come

The citizens of the divided city;
 If any there be just; and the occasion
 Tell me why so much discord has assailed it."

And he to me: "They, after long contention,
 Will come to bloodshed; and the rustic party
 Will drive the other out with much offence.

Then afterwards behoves it this one fall
 Within three suns, and rise again the ot
her
 By force of him who now is on the coast.

High will it hold its forehead a long while,
 Keeping the other under heavy burdens,
 Howe'er it weeps thereat and is indignant.

The just are two, and are not understood there;
 Envy and Arrogance and Avarice
 Are the three sparks that have all hearts enkindled."

Here ended he his tearful utterance;
 And I to him: "I wish thee still to teach me,
 And make a gift to me of further speech.

Farinata and Tegghiaio, once so worthy,
 Jacopo Rusticucci, Arrigo, and Mosca,
 And others who on good deeds set their thoughts,

Say where they are, and cause that I may know them;
 For great desire constraineth me to learn
 If Heaven doth sweeten them, or Hell envenom."

And he: "They are among the blacker souls;
 A different sin downweighs them to the bottom;
 If thou so far descendest, thou canst see them.

But when thou art again in the sweet world,
 I pray thee to the mind of others bring me;
 No more I tell thee and no more I answer."

Then his straightforward eyes he turned askance,
 Eyed me a little, and then bowed his head;
 He fell therewith prone like the other blind.

And the Guide said to me: "He wakes no more
 This side the sound of the angelic trumpet;
 When shall approach the hostile Potentate,

Each one shall find again his dismal tomb,
 Shall reassume his flesh and his own figure,
 Shall hear what through eternity re-echoes."

So we passed onward o'er the filthy mixture
 Of shadows and of rain with footsteps slow,
 Touching a little on the future life.

Wherefore I said: "Master, these torments here,
 Will they increase after the mighty sentence,
 Or lesser be, or will they be as burning?"

And he to me: "Return unto thy science,
 Which wills, that as the thing more perfect is,
 The more it feels of pleasure and of pain.

Albeit that this people maledict
 To true perfection never can attain,
 Hereafter more than now they look to be."

Round in a circle by that road we went,
 Speaking much more, which I do not repeat;
 We came unto the point where the descent is;


There we found Plutus the great enemy.

Inferno: Canto VII

"Pape Satan, Pape Satan, Aleppe!"
 Thus Plutus with his clucking voice began;
 And that benignant Sage, who all things knew,

Said, to encourage me: "Let not thy fear
 Harm thee; for any power that he may have
 Shall not prevent thy going down this crag."

Then he turned round unto that bloated lip,
 And said: "Be silent, thou accursed wolf;
 Consume within thyself with thine own rage.

Not causeless is this journey to the abyss;
 Thus is it willed on high, where Michael wrought
 Vengeance upon the proud adultery."

Even as the sails inflated by the wind
 Involved together fall when snaps the mast,
 So fell the cruel monster to the earth.

Thus we descended into the fourth chasm,
 Gaining still farther on the dolesome shore
 Which all the woe of the universe insacks.

Justice of God, ah! who heaps up so many
 New toils and sufferings as I beheld?
 And why doth our transgression waste us so?

As doth the billow there upon Charybdis,
 That breaks itself on that which it encounters,
 So here the folk must dance their roundelay.

Here saw I people, more than elsewhere, many,
 On one side and the other, with great howls,
 Rolling weights forward by main force of chest.

They clashed together, and then at that point
 Each one turned backward, rolling retrograde,
 Crying, "Why keepest?" and, "Why squanderest thou?"

Thus they returned along the lurid circle
 On either hand unto the opposite point,
 Shouting their shameful metre evermore.

Then each, when he arrived there, wheeled about
 Through his half-circle to another joust;
 And I, who had my heart pierced as it were,

Exclaimed: "My Master, now declare to me
 What people these are, and if all were clerks,
 These shaven crowns upon the left of us."

And he to me: "All of them were asquint
 In intellect in the first life, so much
 That there with measure they no spending made.

Clearly enough their voices bark it forth,
 Whene'er they reach the two points of the circle,
 Where sunders them the opposite defe
ct.

Clerks those were who no hairy covering
 Have on the head, and Popes and Cardinals,
 In whom doth Avarice practise its excess."

And I: "My Master, among such as these
 I ought forsooth to recognise some few,
 Who were infected with these maladies."

And he to me: "Vain thought thou entertainest;
 The undiscerning life which made them sordid
 Now makes them unto all discernment dim.

Forever shall they come to these two buttings;
 These from the sepulchre shall rise again
 With the fist closed, and these with tresses shorn.

Ill giving and ill keeping the fair world
 Have ta'en from them, and placed them in this scuffle;
 Whate'er it be, no words adorn I for it.

Now canst thou, Son, behold the transient farce
 Of goods that are committed unto Fortune,
 For which the human race each other buffet;

For all the gold that is beneath the moon,
 Or ever has been, of these weary souls
 Could never make a single one repose."

"Master," I said to him, "now tell me also
 What is this Fortune which thou speakest of,
 That has the world's goods so within its clutches?"

And he to me: "O creatures imbecile,
 What ignorance is this which doth beset you?
 Now will I have thee learn my judgment of her.

He whose omniscience everything transcends
 The heavens created, and gave who should guide them,
 That every part to every part may shine,

Distributing the light in equal measure;
 He in like manner to the mundane splendours
 Ordained a general ministress and guide,

That she might change at times the empty treasures
 From race to race, from one blood to another,
 Beyond resistance of all human wisdom.

Therefore one people triumphs, and another
 Languishes, in pursuance of her judgment,
 Which hidden is, as in the grass a serpent.

Your knowledge has no counterstand against her;
 She makes provision, judges, and pursues
 Her governance, as theirs the other gods.

Her permutations have not any truce;
 Necessity makes her precipitate,
 So often cometh who his turn obtains.

And this is she who is so crucified
 Even by those
 who ought to give her praise,
 Giving her blame amiss, and bad repute.

But she is blissful, and she hears it not;
 Among the other primal creatures gladsome
 She turns her sphere, and blissful she rejoices.

Let us descend now unto greater woe;
 Already sinks each star that was ascending
 When I set out, and loitering is forbidden."

We crossed the circle to the other bank,
 Near to a fount that boils, and pours itself
 Along a gully that runs out of it.

The water was more sombre far than perse;
 And we, in company with the dusky waves,
 Made entrance downward by a path uncouth.

A marsh it makes, which has the name of Styx,
 This tristful brooklet, when it has descended
 Down to the foot of the malign gray shores.

And I, who stood intent upon beholding,
 Saw people mud-besprent in that lagoon,
 All of them naked and with angry look.

They smote each other not alone with hands,
 But with the head and with the breast and feet,
 Tearing each other piecemeal with their teeth.

Said the good Master: "Son, thou now beholdest
 The souls of those whom anger overcame;
 And likewise I would have thee know for certain

Beneath the water people are who sigh
 And make this water bubble at the surface,
 As the eye tells thee wheresoe'er it turns.

Fixed in the mire they say, 'We sullen were
 In the sweet air, which by the sun is gladdened,
 Bearing within ourselves the sluggish reek;

Now we are sullen in this sable mire.'
 This hymn do they keep gurgling in their throats,
 For with unbroken words they cannot say it."

Thus we went circling round the filthy fen
 A great arc 'twixt the dry bank and the swamp,
 With eyes turned unto those who gorge the mire;

Unto the foot of a tower we came at last.

Inferno: Canto VIII

I say, continuing, that long before
 We to the foot of that high tower had come,
 Our eyes went upward to the summit of it,

By reason of two flamelets we saw placed there,
 And from afar another answer them,
 So far, that hardly could the eye attain it.

And, to the sea of all discernment turned,
 I said:
 "What sayeth this, and what respondeth
 That other fire? and who are they that made it?"

And he to me: "Across the turbid waves
 What is expected thou canst now discern,
 If reek of the morass conceal it not."

Cord never shot an arrow from itself
 That sped away athwart the air so swift,
 As I beheld a very little boat

Come o'er the water tow'rds us at that moment,
 Under the guidance of a single pilot,
 Who shouted, "Now art thou arrived, fell soul?"

"Phlegyas, Phlegyas, thou criest out in vain
 For this once," said my Lord; "thou shalt not have us
 Longer than in the passing of the slough."

As he who listens to some great deceit
 That has been done to him, and then resents it,
 Such became Phlegyas, in his gathered wrath.

My Guide descended down into the boat,
 And then he made me enter after him,
 And only when I entered seemed it laden.

Soon as the Guide and I were in the boat,
 The antique prow goes on its way, dividing
 More of the water than 'tis wont with others.

While we were running through the dead canal,
 Uprose in front of me one full of mire,
 And said, "Who 'rt thou that comest ere the hour?"

And I to him: "Although I come, I stay not;
 But who art thou that hast become so squalid?"
 "Thou seest that I am one who weeps," he answered.

And I to him: "With weeping and with wailing,
 Thou spirit maledict, do thou remain;
 For thee I know, though thou art all defiled."

Then stretched he both his hands unto the boat;
 Whereat my wary Master thrust him back,
 Saying, "Away there with the other dogs!"

Thereafter with his arms he clasped my neck;
 He kissed my face, and said: "Disdainful soul,
 Blessed be she who bore thee in her bosom.

That was an arrogant person in the world;
 Goodness is none, that decks his memory;
 So likewise here his shade is furious.

How many are esteemed great kings up there,
 Who here shall be like unto swine in mire,
 Leaving behind them horrible dispraises!"

And I: "My Master, much should I be pleased,
 If I could see him soused into this broth,
 Before we issue 
forth out of the lake."

And he to me: "Ere unto thee the shore
 Reveal itself, thou shalt be satisfied;
 Such a desire 'tis meet thou shouldst enjoy."

A little after that, I saw such havoc
 Made of him by the people of the mire,
 That still I praise and thank my God for it.

They all were shouting, "At Philippo Argenti!"
 And that exasperate spirit Florentine
 Turned round upon himself with his own teeth.

We left him there, and more of him I tell not;
 But on mine ears there smote a lamentation,
 Whence forward I intent unbar mine eyes.

And the good Master said: "Even now, my Son,
 The city draweth near whose name is Dis,
 With the grave citizens, with the great throng."

And I: "Its mosques already, Master, clearly
 Within there in the valley I discern
 Vermilion, as if issuing from the fire

They were." And he to me: "The fire eternal
 That kindles them within makes them look red,
 As thou beholdest in this nether Hell."

Then we arrived within the moats profound,
 That circumvallate that disconsolate city;
 The walls appeared to me to be of iron.

Not without making first a circuit wide,
 We came unto a place where loud the pilot
 Cried out to us, "Debark, here is the entrance."

More than a thousand at the gates I saw
 Out of the Heavens rained down, who angrily
 Were saying, "Who is this that without death

Goes through the kingdom of the people dead?"
 And my sagacious Master made a sign
 Of wishing secretly to speak with them.

A little then they quelled their great disdain,
 And said: "Come thou alone, and he begone
 Who has so boldly entered these dominions.

Let him return alone by his mad road;
 Try, if he can; for thou shalt here remain,
 Who hast escorted him through such dark regions."

Think, Reader, if I was discomforted
 At utterance of the accursed words;
 For never to return here I believed.

"O my dear Guide, who more than seven times
 Hast rendered me security, and drawn me
 From imminent peril that before me stood,

Do not desert me," said I, "thus undone;
 And if the going farther be de
nied us,
 Let us retrace our steps together swiftly."

And that Lord, who had led me thitherward,
 Said unto me: "Fear not; because our passage
 None can take from us, it by Such is given.

But here await me, and thy weary spirit
 Comfort and nourish with a better hope;
 For in this nether world I will not leave thee."

So onward goes and there abandons me
 My Father sweet, and I remain in doubt,
 For No and Yes within my head contend.

I could not hear what he proposed to them;
 But with them there he did not linger long,
 Ere each within in rivalry ran back.

They closed the portals, those our adversaries,
 On my Lord's breast, who had remained without
 And turned to me with footsteps far between.

His eyes cast down, his forehead shorn had he
 Of all its boldness, and he said, with sighs,
 "Who has denied to me the dolesome houses?"

And unto me: "Thou, because I am angry,
 Fear not, for I will conquer in the trial,
 Whatever for defence within be planned.

This arrogance of theirs is nothing new;
 For once they used it at less secret gate,
 Which finds itself without a fastening still.

O'er it didst thou behold the dead inscription;
 And now this side of it descends the steep,
 Passing across the circles without escort,

One by whose means the city shall be opened."

Inferno: Canto IX

That hue which cowardice brought out on me,
 Beholding my Conductor backward turn,
 Sooner repressed within him his new colour.

He stopped attentive, like a man who listens,
 Because the eye could not conduct him far
 Through the black air, and through the heavy fog.

"Still it behoveth us to win the fight,"
 Began he; "Else. . .Such offered us herself. . .
 O how I long that some one here arrive!"

Well I perceived, as soon as the beginning
 He covered up with what came afterward,
 That they were words quite different from the first;

But none the less his saying gave me fear,
 Because I carried out the broken phrase,
 Perhaps to a worse meaning than he had.

"Into this bottom of the doleful conch
 Doth any e'er descend from
 the first grade,
 Which for its pain has only hope cut off?"

This question put I; and he answered me:
 "Seldom it comes to pass that one of us
 Maketh the journey upon which I go.

True is it, once before I here below
 Was conjured by that pitiless Erictho,
 Who summoned back the shades unto their bodies.

Naked of me short while the flesh had been,
 Before within that wall she made me enter,
 To bring a spirit from the circle of Judas;

That is the lowest region and the darkest,
 And farthest from the heaven which circles all.
 Well know I the way; therefore be reassured.

This fen, which a prodigious stench exhales,
 Encompasses about the city dolent,
 Where now we cannot enter without anger."

And more he said, but not in mind I have it;
 Because mine eye had altogether drawn me
 Tow'rds the high tower with the red-flaming summit,

Where in a moment saw I swift uprisen
 The three infernal Furies stained with blood,
 Who had the limbs of women and their mien,

And with the greenest hydras were begirt;
 Small serpents and cerastes were their tresses,
 Wherewith their horrid temples were entwined.

And he who well the handmaids of the Queen
 Of everlasting lamentation knew,
 Said unto me: "Behold the fierce Erinnys.

This is Megaera, on the left-hand side;
 She who is weeping on the right, Alecto;
 Tisiphone is between;" and then was silent.

Each one her breast was rending with her nails;
 They beat them with their palms, and cried so loud,
 That I for dread pressed close unto the Poet.

"Medusa come, so we to stone will change him!"
 All shouted looking down; "in evil hour
 Avenged we not on Theseus his assault!"

"Turn thyself round, and keep thine eyes close shut,
 For if the Gorgon appear, and thou shouldst see it,
 No more returning upward would there be."

Thus said the Master; and he turned me round
 Himself, and trusted not unto my hands
 So far as not to blind me with his own.

O ye who have undistempered intellects,
 Observe the doctrine that conceals itself
 Beneath the veil of the mysterious verses
!

And now there came across the turbid waves
 The clangour of a sound with terror fraught,
 Because of which both of the margins trembled;

Not otherwise it was than of a wind
 Impetuous on account of adverse heats,
 That smites the forest, and, without restraint,

The branches rends, beats down, and bears away;
 Right onward, laden with dust, it goes superb,
 And puts to flight the wild beasts and the shepherds.

Mine eyes he loosed, and said: "Direct the nerve
 Of vision now along that ancient foam,
 There yonder where that smoke is most intense."

Even as the frogs before the hostile serpent
 Across the water scatter all abroad,
 Until each one is huddled in the earth.

More than a thousand ruined souls I saw,
 Thus fleeing from before one who on foot
 Was passing o'er the Styx with soles unwet.

From off his face he fanned that unctuous air,
 Waving his left hand oft in front of him,
 And only with that anguish seemed he weary.

Well I perceived one sent from Heaven was he,
 And to the Master turned; and he made sign
 That I should quiet stand, and bow before him.

Ah! how disdainful he appeared to me!
 He reached the gate, and with a little rod
 He opened it, for there was no resistance.

"O banished out of Heaven, people despised!"
 Thus he began upon the horrid threshold;
 "Whence is this arrogance within you couched?

Wherefore recalcitrate against that will,
 From which the end can never be cut off,
 And which has many times increased your pain?

What helpeth it to butt against the fates?
 Your Cerberus, if you remember well,
 For that still bears his chin and gullet peeled."

Then he returned along the miry road,
 And spake no word to us, but had the look
 Of one whom other care constrains and goads

Than that of him who in his presence is;
 And we our feet directed tow'rds the city,
 After those holy words all confident.

Within we entered without any contest;
 And I, who inclination had to see
 What the condition such a fortress holds,

Soon as I was within, cast round mine eye,
 And see on every han
d an ample plain,
 Full of distress and torment terrible.

Even as at Arles, where stagnant grows the Rhone,
 Even as at Pola near to the Quarnaro,
 That shuts in Italy and bathes its borders,

The sepulchres make all the place uneven;
 So likewise did they there on every side,
 Saving that there the manner was more bitter;

For flames between the sepulchres were scattered,
 By which they so intensely heated were,
 That iron more so asks not any art.

All of their coverings uplifted were,
 And from them issued forth such dire laments,
 Sooth seemed they of the wretched and tormented.

And I: "My Master, what are all those people
 Who, having sepulture within those tombs,
 Make themselves audible by doleful sighs?"

And he to me: "Here are the Heresiarchs,
 With their disciples of all sects, and much
 More than thou thinkest laden are the tombs.

Here like together with its like is buried;
 And more and less the monuments are heated."
 And when he to the right had turned, we passed

Between the torments and high parapets.

Inferno: Canto X

Now onward goes, along a narrow path
 Between the torments and the city wall,
 My Master, and I follow at his back.

"O power supreme, that through these impious circles
 Turnest me," I began, "as pleases thee,
 Speak to me, and my longings satisfy;

The people who are lying in these tombs,
 Might they be seen? already are uplifted
 The covers all, and no one keepeth guard."

And he to me: "They all will be closed up
 When from Jehoshaphat they shall return
 Here with the bodies they have left above.

Their cemetery have upon this side
 With Epicurus all his followers,
 Who with the body mortal make the soul;

But in the question thou dost put to me,
 Within here shalt thou soon be satisfied,
 And likewise in the wish thou keepest silent."

And I: "Good Leader, I but keep concealed
 From thee my heart, that I may speak the less,
 Nor only now hast thou thereto disposed me."

"O Tuscan, thou who through the city of fire
 Goest alive, thus speaking modestly,
 Be pleased to stay t
hy footsteps in this place.

Thy mode of speaking makes thee manifest
 A native of that noble fatherland,
 To which perhaps I too molestful was."

Upon a sudden issued forth this sound
 From out one of the tombs; wherefore I pressed,
 Fearing, a little nearer to my Leader.

And unto me he said: "Turn thee; what dost thou?
 Behold there Farinata who has risen;
 From the waist upwards wholly shalt thou see him."

I had already fixed mine eyes on his,
 And he uprose erect with breast and front
 E'en as if Hell he had in great despite.

And with courageous hands and prompt my Leader
 Thrust me between the sepulchres towards him,
 Exclaiming, "Let thy words explicit be."

As soon as I was at the foot of his tomb
 Somewhat he eyed me, and, as if disdainful,
 Then asked of me, "Who were thine ancestors?"

I, who desirous of obeying was,
 Concealed it not, but all revealed to him;
 Whereat he raised his brows a little upward.

Then said he: "Fiercely adverse have they been
 To me, and to my fathers, and my party;
 So that two several times I scattered them."

"If they were banished, they returned on all sides,"
 I answered him, "the first time and the second;
 But yours have not acquired that art aright."

Then there uprose upon the sight, uncovered
 Down to the chin, a shadow at his side;
 I think that he had risen on his knees.

Round me he gazed, as if solicitude
 He had to see if some one else were with me,
 But after his suspicion was all spent,

Weeping, he said to me: "If through this blind
 Prison thou goest by loftiness of genius,
 Where is my son? and why is he not with thee?"

And I to him: "I come not of myself;
 He who is waiting yonder leads me here,
 Whom in disdain perhaps your Guido had."

His language and the mode of punishment
 Already unto me had read his name;
 On that account my answer was so full.

Up starting suddenly, he cried out: "How
 Saidst thou,--he had? Is he not still alive?
 Does not the sweet light strike upon his eyes?"

When he became aware of some delay,
 Which I before my answer made
, supine
 He fell again, and forth appeared no more.

But the other, magnanimous, at whose desire
 I had remained, did not his aspect change,
 Neither his neck he moved, nor bent his side.

"And if," continuing his first discourse,
 "They have that art," he said, "not learned aright,
 That more tormenteth me, than doth this bed.

But fifty times shall not rekindled be
 The countenance of the Lady who reigns here,
 Ere thou shalt know how heavy is that art;

And as thou wouldst to the sweet world return,
 Say why that people is so pitiless
 Against my race in each one of its laws?"

Whence I to him: "The slaughter and great carnage
 Which have with crimson stained the Arbia, cause
 Such orisons in our temple to be made."

After his head he with a sigh had shaken,
 "There I was not alone," he said, "nor surely
 Without a cause had with the others moved.

But there I was alone, where every one
 Consented to the laying waste of Florence,
 He who defended her with open face."

"Ah! so hereafter may your seed repose,"
 I him entreated, "solve for me that knot,
 Which has entangled my conceptions here.

It seems that you can see, if I hear rightly,
 Beforehand whatsoe'er time brings with it,
 And in the present have another mode."

"We see, like those who have imperfect sight,
 The things," he said, "that distant are from us;
 So much still shines on us the Sovereign Ruler.

When they draw near, or are, is wholly vain
 Our intellect, and if none brings it to us,
 Not anything know we of your human state.

Hence thou canst understand, that wholly dead
 Will be our knowledge from the moment when
 The portal of the future shall be closed."

Then I, as if compunctious for my fault,
 Said: "Now, then, you will tell that fallen one,
 That still his son is with the living joined.

And if just now, in answering, I was dumb,
 Tell him I did it because I was thinking
 Already of the error you have solved me."

And now my Master was recalling me,
 Wherefore more eagerly I prayed the spirit
 That he would tell me who was with him t
here.

He said: "With more than a thousand here I lie;
 Within here is the second Frederick,
 And the Cardinal, and of the rest I speak not."

Thereon he hid himself; and I towards
 The ancient poet turned my steps, reflecting
 Upon that saying, which seemed hostile to me.

He moved along; and afterward thus going,
 He said to me, "Why art thou so bewildered?"
 And I in his inquiry satisfied him.

"Let memory preserve what thou hast heard
 Against thyself," that Sage commanded me,
 "And now attend here;" and he raised his finger.

"When thou shalt be before the radiance sweet
 Of her whose beauteous eyes all things behold,
 From her thou'lt know the journey of thy life."

Unto the left hand then he turned his feet;
 We left the wall, and went towards the middle,
 Along a path that strikes into a valley,

Which even up there unpleasant made its stench.

Inferno: Canto XI

Upon the margin of a lofty bank
 Which great rocks broken in a circle made,
 We came upon a still more cruel throng;

And there, by reason of the horrible
 Excess of stench the deep abyss throws out,
 We drew ourselves aside behind the cover

Of a great tomb, whereon I saw a writing,
 Which said: "Pope Anastasius I hold,
 Whom out of the right way Photinus drew."

"Slow it behoveth our descent to be,
 So that the sense be first a little used
 To the sad blast, and then we shall not heed it."

The Master thus; and unto him I said,
 "Some compensation find, that the time pass not
 Idly;" and he: "Thou seest I think of that.

My son, upon the inside of these rocks,"
 Began he then to say, "are three small circles,
 From grade to grade, like those which thou art leaving.

They all are full of spirits maledict;
 But that hereafter sight alone suffice thee,
 Hear how and wherefore they are in constraint.

Of every malice that wins hate in Heaven,
 Injury is the end; and all such end
 Either by force or fraud afflicteth others.

But because fraud is man's peculiar vice,
 More it displeases God; and so stand lowest
 The fraudulent, and greater dole assai
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Dave Morgan and PG Distributed Proofreaders

[Illustration: Darrin's Blow Knocked the Midshipman Down]

DAVE DARRIN'S SECOND YEAR AT ANNAPOLIS

or

Two Midshipmen as Naval Academy "Youngsters"

By

H. IRVING HANCOCK Illustrated

MCMXI

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I. A QUESTION OF MIDSHIPMAN HONOR

II. DAVE'S PAP-SHEET ADVICE

III. MIDSHIPMAN PENNINGTON GOES TOO FAR

IV. A LITTLE MEETING ASHORE

V. WHEN THE SECONDS WONDERED

VI. IN TROUBLE ON FOREIGN SOIL

VII. PENNINGTON GETS HIS WISH

VIII. THE TRAGEDY OF THE GALE

IX. THE DESPAIR OF THE "RECALL"

X. THE GRIM WATCH FROM THE WAVES

XI. MIDSHIPMAN PENNINGTON'S ACCIDENT

XII. BACK IN THE HOME TOWN

XIII. DAN RECEIVES A FEARFUL FACER

XIV. THE FIRST HOP WITH THE HOME GIRLS

XV. A DISAGREEABLE FIRST CLASSMAN

XVI. HOW DAN FACED THE BOARD

XVII. LOSING THE TIME-KEEPER'S COUNT

XVIII. FIGHTING THE FAMOUS DOUBLE BATTLE

XIX. THE OFFICER IN CHARGE IS SHOCKED

XX. CONCLUSION

CHAPTER I

A QUESTION OF MIDSHIPMAN HONOR

"How can a midshipman and gentleman act in that way?"

The voice of Midshipman David Darrin, United States Navy, vibrated
uneasily as he turned to his comrades.

"It's a shame--that's what it is," quivered Mr. Farley, also of the
third class at the United States Naval Academy.

"But the question is," propounded Midshipman Dan Dalzell, "what are we
going to do about it?"

"Is it any part of our business to bother with the fellow?" demanded
Farley half savagely.

Now Farley was rather hot-tempered, though he was "all there" in points
that involved the honor of the brigade of midshipmen.

Five midshipmen stood in the squalid, ill-odored back room of a Chinese
laundry in the town of Annapolis.

There was a sixth midshipman present in the handsome blue uniform of the
brigade; and it was upon this sixth one that the anger and disgust of
the other five had centered.

He lay in a sleep too deep for stirring. On the still, foul air floated
fumes that were new to those of his comrades who now gazed down on him.

"To think that one of our class co
uld make such a beast of himself!"
sighed Dave Darrin.

"And on the morning of the very day we're to ship for the summer
cruise," uttered Farley angrily.

"Oh, well" growled Hallam, "why not let this animal of lower grade sleep
just where he is? Let him take what he has fairly brought upon himself!"

"That's the very question that is agitating me," declared Dave Darrin,
to whom these other members of the third class looked as a leader when
there was a point involving class honor.

Dave had became a leader through suffering.

Readers of the preceding volume in this series, "DAVE DARRIN'S FIRST
YEAR AT ANNAPOLIS," will need no introduction to this fine specimen of
spirited and honorable young American.

Readers of that preceding volume will recall how Dave Darrin and Dan
Dalzell entered the United States Naval Academy, one appointed by a
Congressman and the other by a United States Senator. Such readers will
remember the difficult time that Dave and Dan had in getting through the
work of the first hard, grinding year. They will also recall how Dave
Darrin, when accused of treachery to his classmates, patiently bided his
time until he, with the aid of some close friends, was able to
demonstrate his innocence. Our readers will also remember how two
evil-minded members of the then fourth class plotted to increase Damn's
disgrace and to drive him out of the brigade; also how these two
plotters, Midshipmen Henkel and Brimmer, were caught in their plotting
and were themselves forced out of the brigade. Our readers know that
before the end of the first year at the Naval Academy, Dave had fully
reinstated himself in the esteem of his manly classmates, and how he
quickly became the most popular and respected member of his class.

It was now only the day after the events whose narration closed the
preceding volume.

Dave Darrin and Dalzell were first of all brought to notice in "THE HIGH
SCHOOL BOYS' SERIES." In their High School days, back in Gridley, these
two had been famous members of Dick & Co., a sextette of youngsters
 who
had made a name for themselves in school athletics.

Dick Prescott and Greg Holmes, two other members of the sextette, had
been appointed to the United States Military Academy at West Point,
where they were serving in the corps of cadets and learning how to
become Army officers in the not far distant future. All of the
adventures of Dick and Greg are set forth in "THE WEST POINT SERIES."

The two remaining members of famous old Dick & Co., Tom Reade and Harry
Hazelton, became civil engineers, and went West for their first taste of
engineering work. Tom and Harry had some wonderful and startling
adventures, as fully set forth in "THE YOUNG ENGINEERS' SERIES."

On this early June day when we again encounter Dave Darrin and Dan
Dalzell in their handsome Naval uniforms, all members of the first,
second and third classes were due to be aboard one of the three great
battleships that lay off the Yard at Annapolis at four p.m.

These three great battleships were the "Massachusetts," the "Iowa" and
the "Indiana." These three huge, turreted fighting craft had their full
crews aboard. Not one of the battleship commanders would allow a
"jackie" ashore, except on business, through fear that many of the
"wilder" ones might find the attractions on shore too alluring, and fail
to return in time.

With the young midshipmen it was different. These young men were
officially and actually gentlemen, and could be trusted.

Yet here, in the back room of this laundry, was one who was apparently
not dependable.

This young midshipman's name was Pennington, and the fact was that he
lay in deep stupor from the effects of smoking opium!

It had been a storekeeper, with a shop across the street, who had called
the attention of Dave and his four comrades to the probable fate of
another of their class.

"Chow Hop runs a laundry, but I have heard evil stories about a lot of
young fools who flock to his back room and get a chance to 'hit' the
opium pipe," the storekeeper had stated to Dave. "One of your men, or at
least, one in a midshipman
's uniform, went in there at eleven o'clock
this forenoon, and he hasn't been out since. It is now nearly two
o'clock and, I've been looking for some midshipmen to inform."

Such had been the storekeeper's careful statement. The merchants of
Annapolis always have a kindly feeling toward these fine young
midshipmen. The storekeeper's purpose was to enable them to help their
comrade out.

So the five had entered the laundry. The proprietor, Chow Hop, had
attempted to bar their way to the rear room.

But Dave had seized the yellow man and had flung him aside.

The reader already knows what they discovered, and how it affected these
young men.

"Bring that copper- chink in here, if you'll be so good,"
directed Dave.

Dan and Hallam departed on the quest.

"You're wanted in there," proclaimed Dalzell, jerking a thumb over his
shoulder.

"Me no sabby," replied Chow Hop, looking up briefly from his ironing
board.

"Get in there--do you hear?" commanded Hallam, gripping the other's arm
with all his force.

"You lemme go chop-chop (quickly), or you get alle samee hurt--you
sabby?" scowled Chow Hop, using his free hand to raise a heavy flat-iron
menacingly.

But Dan Dalzell jumped in, giving the Chinaman's wrist a wrench that
caused him to drop the iron.

Then, without a bit of ceremony, Dan grasped the Oriental by the
shoulders, wheeled him about, while he protested in guttural tones, and
bluntly kicked the yellow-faced one through the door into the inner
room.

At this summary proceeding both the Chinese helpers gripped their
flat-irons firmly; and leaped forward to fight.

In an ugly temper the Chinaman is a bad man to oppose. But now this pair
were faced by a pair of quietly smiling midshipmen who were also
dangerous when angry.

"You two, get back," ordered Dalzell, advancing fearlessly upon the
pair. "If you don't, we'll drag you out into the street and turn you
over to the policemen. You 'sabby' that? You heathen are pretty likely
to get into prison for this day's work!"

Scowling for a moment, then muttering savage
ly, the two helpers slunk
back to their ironing boards.

Yet, while Dan turned to go into the rear room, Hallam stood just where
he was, to keep an eye on two possible sources of swift trouble.

"Chow Hop," began Dave Damn sternly, as the proprietor made his flying
appearance, "You've done a pretty mean piece of work here"--pointing to
the unconscious midshipman in the berth. "Do you understand that you're
pretty likely to go to prison for this?"

"Oh, that no maller," replied Chow, with a sullen grin. "Him plenty
'shipmen come here and smoke."

"You lie!" hissed Dave, grasping the heathen by the collar and shaking
him until the latter's teeth rattled.

Then Dave gave him a brief rest, though he still retained his hold on
the Chinaman's collar. But the yellow man began struggling again, and
Dave repeated the shaking.

Chow Hop had kept his hands up inside his wide sleeves. Now Farley
leaped forward as he shouted:

"Look out, Darry! He has a knife!"

Farley attempted to seize the Chinaman's wrist, for the purpose of
disarming the yellow man, but Dave swiftly threw the Chinaman around out
of Farley's reach. Then, with a lightning-like move, Dave knocked the
knife from Chow Hop's hand.

"Pick that up and keep it for a curio, Farley," directed Dave coolly.

In another twinkling Darrin had run the Chinaman up against the wall.

Smack! biff! thump!

With increasing force Dave's hard fist struck the heathen in the face.

"Now stand there and behave yourself," admonished Midshipman Dave,
dropping his hold on the yellow man's collar, "or we'll stop playing
with you and hurt you some."

The scowl on Chow Hop's face was ominous, but he stood still, glaring at
Dave.

"Chow, what can we do to bring this man out of his sleep!" asked Dave
coolly, and almost in a friendly tone.

"Me no sabby," sulked the Chinaman.

"Yes, you do," retorted Dave warningly. "Now, what can we do to get our
friend out of this!"

"You allee same cally (carry) him out," retorted Chow, with a suspicion
of a sulky grin.

"None of that, now, you yellow-fa
ce!" glared Dave. "How shall we get our
comrade out of this opium sleep!"

"Me no sabby no way," insisted Chow.

"Oh, yes, you do!" snapped Dave. "But you won't tell. All right; we'll
find the way, and we'll punish you into the bargain. Dan, get a piece of
paper from the other room."

Dalzell was quickly back with the desired item. On the paper Dave wrote
a name and a telephone number.

"It's near the end of the doctor's office hours," murmured Dave. "Go to
a telephone and ask the doctor to meet you at the corner above. Tell him
it's vastly important, and ask him to meet you on the jump."

"Shall I tell him what's up!" asked Dan cautiously.

"Yes; you'd better. Then he'll be sure to bring the necessary remedies
with him."

Dan Dalzell was off like a shot.

Chow tried to edge around toward the door.

"Here, you get back there," cried Dave, seizing the Chinaman and
slamming him back against the wall. "Don't you move again, until we tell
you that you may--or it will be the worse for you."

Ten minutes passed ere Dan returned with Dr. Lawrence.

"You see the job that's cut out for you," said Darrin, pointing to the
unconscious figure in the bunk. "Can you do it, Doctor?"

The medical man made a hasty examination of the unconscious midshipman
before he answered briefly:

"Yes."

"Will it be a long job, Doctor?"

"Fifteen minutes, probably."

"Oh, good, if you can do it in that time!"

"Me go now?" asked Chow, with sullen curiosity, as the medical man
opened his medicine-case.

"Yes; if you don't try to leave the joint," agreed Dave. "And I'm going
outside with you."

Chow looked very much as though he did not care for company, but
Midshipman Darrin kept at his side.

"Now, see here, Chow," warned Dave, "this is the last day you sell opium
for white men to smoke!"

"You heap too flesh (fresh)" growled the Chinaman.

"It's the last day you'll sell opium to white men," insisted Dave, "for,
as soon as I'm through here I'm going to the police station to inform
against you. They'll go through here like a twelve-inch shot."


"You alle same tell cop?" grinned Chow, green hatred showing through his
skin. "Then I tell evelybody about you fliend in there."

"Do just as you please about that," retorted Dave with pretended
carelessness. "For one thing, you don't know his name."

"Oh, yes, I do," swaggered Chow impudently. "Know heap 'bout him. His
name alle same Pen'ton."

Seizing a marking brush and a piece of paper, Chow Hop quickly wrote out
Pennington's name, correctly spelled. His ability to write English with
a good hand was one of Chow's great vanities, anyway.

"You go back to your ironing board, yellow-face," warned Darrin, and
something in the young third classman's face showed Chow that it would
be wise to obey.

Then Hallam drew Darrin to one side, to whisper earnestly in his ear:

"Look out, old man, or you will get Pen into an awful scrape!"

"I shan't do it," maintained Darrin. "If it happens it will have been
Pen's own work."

"You'd better let the chink go, just to save one of our class."

"Is a fellow who has turned opium fiend worth saving to the class!"
demanded Dave, looking straight into Hallam's eyes.

"Well, er--er--" stammered the other man.

"You see," smiled Dave, "the doubt hits you just as hard as it does me!"

"Oh, of course, a fellow who has turned opium fiend is no fellow ever to
be allowed to reach the bridge and the quarter-deck," admitted Hallam.
"But see here, are you going to report this affair to the commandant of
midshipmen, or to anyone else in authority?"

"I've no occasion to report," replied Dave dryly. "I am not in any way
in command over Pennington. But I mean to persuade him to report himself
for what he has done!"

"But that would ruin him!" protested Hallam, aghast. "He wouldn't even
be allowed to start on the cruise. He'd be railroaded home without loss
of a moment."

"Yet you've just said that an opium-user isn't fit to go on in the
brigade," retorted Darrin.

"Hang it, it's hard to know what to do," rejoined Hallam, wrinkling his
forehead. "Of course we want to be just to Pen."

"It doesn
't strike me as being just exactly a question of justice to
Pennington," Darrin went on earnestly. "If this is anything it's a
question of midshipman honor. We fellows are bound to see that all the
unworthy ones are dropped from the service. Now, a fellow who has
fastened the opium habit on himself isn't fit to go on, is he?"

"Oh, say, but this is a hard one to settle!" groaned Hallam.

"Then I'll take all the responsibility upon myself," said Dave promptly.
"I don't want to make any mistake, and I don't believe I'm going to.
Wait just a moment."

Going to the rear room, Dave faced his three comrades there with the
question:

"You three are enough to take care of everything here for a few minutes,
aren't you?"

"Yes," nodded Dan. "What's up?"

"Hallam and I are going for a brief walk."

Then, stepping back into the front room, Darrin nodded to his classmate,
who followed him outside.

"Just come along, and say nothing about the matter on the street,"
requested Dave. "It might be overheard."

"Where are you going?" questioned Hallam wonderingly.

"Wait and see, please."

From Chow Hop's wretched establishment it was not far to the other
building that Dave had in mind as a destination.

But when they arrived, and stood at the foot of the steps, Hallam
clutched Darrin's arm, holding him back.

"Why, see here, this is the police station!"

"I know it," Dave replied calmly.

"But see here, you're not--"

"I'm not going to drag you into anything that you'd object to," Darrin
continued. "Come along; all I want you for is as a witness to what I am
going to say."

"Don't do it, old fel--"

"I've thought that over, and I feel that I must," replied Dave firmly.
"Come along. Don't attract attention by standing here arguing."

In another instant the two midshipmen were going swiftly up the steps.

The chief of police received his two callers courteously. Dave told the
official how their attention had been called to the fact that one of
their number was in an opium joint. Dave named the place, but requested
the chief to wait 
a full hour before taking any action.

"That will give us a chance to get out a comrade who may have committed
only his first offense," Dave continued.

"If there's any opium being smoked in that place I'll surely close the
joint out!" replied the chief, bringing his fist down upon his desk.
"But I understand your reasons, Mr.--"

"Darrin is my name, sir," replied Dave quietly.

"So, Mr. Darrin, I give you my word that I won't even start my
investigations before this evening. And I'll keep all quiet about the
midshipman end of it."

"Thank you very much, sir," said Dave gratefully.

As the two midshipmen strolled slowly back in the direction of Chow
Hop's, Dave murmured:

"Now, you see why I took this step?"

"I'm afraid not very clearly," replied Midshipman Hallam.

"That scoundrelly Chow made his boast that other midshipmen patronized
his place. I don't believe it. Such a vice wouldn't appeal to you, and
it doesn't to me. But there are more than two hundred new plebes coming
in just now, and many of these boys have never been away from home
before. Some of them might foolishly seek the lure of a new vice, and
might find the habit fastened on them before they were aware of it.
Chow's vile den might spoil some good material for the quarter-deck,
and, as a matter of midshipman honor, we're bound to see that the place
is cleaned out right away."

"I guess, Darry, you come pretty near being right," assented Hallam,
after thinking for a few moments.

By the time they reached Chow Hop's again they found that Dr. Lawrence
had brought the unfortunate Pennington to. And a very scared and
humiliated midshipman it was who now stood up, a bit unsteadily, and
tried to smooth down his uniform.

"How do you feel now?" asked Dave.

"Awful!" shuddered Pennington. "And now see here, what are you fellows
going to do? Blab, and see me driven out of the Navy?"

"Don't do any talking in here," advised Dave, with a meaning look over
his shoulder at the yellow men in the outer room. "Doctor, is our friend
in shape to walk along with us
 now?"

"He will be, in two or three minutes, after he drinks something I'm
going to give him," replied the medical man, shaking a few drops from
each of three vials into a glass of water. "Here, young man, drink this
slowly."

Three minutes later the midshipmen left the place, Dave walking beside
Pennington and holding his arm lightly for the purpose of steadying him.

"How did this happen, Pen?" queried Dave, when the six men of the third
class at last found themselves walking down Maryland Avenue. "How long
have you been at this 'hop' trick?"

"Never before to-day," replied Midshipman Pennington quickly.

"Pen, will you tell me that on your honor?" asked Dave gravely.

The other midshipman flared up.

"Why must I give you my word of honor?" he demanded defiantly. "Isn't my
plain word good enough?"

"Your word of honor that you had never smoked opium before to-day would
help to ease my mind a whole lot," replied Darrin. "Come, unburden
yourself, won't you, Pen?"

"I'll tell you, Darry, just how it happened. To-day _was_ the first
time, on my word of honor, I came out into Annapolis with a raging
toothache. Now, you know how a fellow gets to hate to go before the
medical officers of the Academy with a tale about his teeth."

"Yes, I do," nodded Darrin. "If a fellow is too much on the medical
report for trouble with his teeth, then it makes the surgeons look his
mouth over with all the more caution, and in the end a fellow may get
dropped from the brigade just because he has invited over zeal from the
dentist. But what has all this to do with opium smoking?"

"Just this," replied Pennington, hanging his head. "I went into a drug
store and asked a clerk that I know what was the best thing for
toothache. He told me the best he knew was to smoke a pipe of opium, and
told me where to find Chow Hop, and what to say to the chink. And it's
all a lie about opium helping a sore tooth," cried the wretched
midshipman, clapping a hand to his jaw, "for there goes that fiendish
tooth again! But say! You fellows are not going t
o leak about my little
mishap?"

"No," replied Darrin with great promptness. "You're going to do that
yourself."

"What?" gasped Midshipman Pennington in intense astonishment. "What are
you talking about?"

"You'll be wise to turn in a report, on what happened," pursued Dave,
"for it's likely to reach official ears, anyway, and you'll be better
off if you make the first report on the subject."

"Why is it likely to reach official ears, if you fellows keep your
mouths shut?"

"You see," Darrin went on very quietly, "I reported the joint at the
police station, and Chow Hop threatened that, if I did, he'd tell all he
knew about everybody. So you'd better be first----"

"You broke the game out to the police!" gasped Pennington, staring
dumfoundedly at his comrade. "What on earth----"

"I did it because I had more than one satisfactory reason for
considering it my duty," interposed Dave, speaking quietly though
firmly.

"You--you--bag of wind!" exploded Midshipman Pennington.

"I'll accept your apology when you've had time to think it all over,"
replied Dave, with a smile, though there was a brief flash in his eyes.

"I'll make no apology to you--at any time, you--you--greaser!"

Marks for efficiency or good conduct, which increase a midshipman's
standing, are called "grease-marks" or "grease" in midshipman slang.
Hence a midshipman who is accused of currying favor with his officers in
order to win "grease" is contemptuously termed a "greaser."

"I don't want to talk with you any more, Mr. Darrin," Pennington went on
bitterly, "or walk with you, either. When I get over this toothache I'll
call you out--you greaser!"

Burning with indignation, Midshipman Pennington fell back to walk with
Hallam.

CHAPTER II

DAVE'S PAP-SHEET ADVICE

When our party reached the landing a lively scene lay before them.

Fully a hundred midshipmen, belonging to the first, second and third
classes, were waiting to be transported out to one or another of the
great, gray battleships.

Several launches were darting back and forth over the water
. The baggage
of the midshipmen had already been taken aboard the battleships. Only
the young men themselves were now awaited.

Near-by stood a lieutenant of the Navy, who was directing the
embarkation of the midshipmen of the different classes.

Five minutes after our party arrived a launch from the "Massachusetts"
lay in alongside the landing.

"Third classmen, this way!" shouted the lieutenant. "How many of you?"

Turning his eyes over the squad that had moved forward, the officer
continued:

"Twenty-two. You can all crowd into this launch. Move quickly, young
gentlemen!"

In another couple of minutes the puffing launch was steaming away to the
massive battleship that lay out in the stream.

Dave stood well up in the bow. Once he barely overheard Pennington
mutter to a comrade:

"The rascally greaser!"

"That means me," Dave muttered under his breath. "I won't take it up
now, or in any hurry. I'll wait until Pen has had time to see things
straight."

As soon as the launch lay alongside, the young midshipmen clambered
nimbly up the side gangway, each raising his cap to the flag at the
stern as he passed through the opening in the rail.

Here stood an officer with an open book in his hand. To him each
midshipman reported, saluting, stated his name, and received his
berthing.

"Hurry away to find your berthings, and get acquainted with the
location," ordered this officer. "Every midshipman will report on the
quarter-deck promptly at five p.m. In the meantime, after locating your
berthings, you are at liberty to range over the ship, avoiding the ward
room and the staterooms of officers."

The latest arrivals saluted. Then, under the guidance of messengers
chosen from among the apprentice members of the crew, the young men
located their berthings.

"I'm going to get mine changed, if I can," growled Pennington, wheeling
upon Dave Darrin. "I'm much too close to a greaser. I'm afraid I may get
my uniforms spotted, as well as my character."

"Stop that, Pen!" warned Dave, stationing himself squarely before the
angry Pe
nnington. "I don't know just how far you're responsible for what
you're saying now. To-morrow, if you make any such remarks to me, you'll
have to pay a mighty big penalty for them."

"You'll make me pay by going to the commandant and telling him all you
know, I suppose?" sneered Pennington.

"You know better, Pen! Now, begin to practise keeping a civil tongue
behind your teeth!"

With that, Darrin turned on his heel, seeking the deck.

This left "Pen" to conjecture as to whether he should report his
misadventure, and, if so, how best to go about it.

"See here, Hallam," began the worried midshipman, "I begin to feel that
it will be safer to turn in some kind of report on myself."

"Much safer," agreed Hallam. "It will show good faith on your part if
you report yourself."

"And get me broken from the service, too, I suppose," growled the
unhappy one.

"I hardly think it will, if you report yourself first," urged Hallam.
"But you'll be about certain to get your walking papers if you wait for
the first information to come from other sources."

"Hang it," groaned Pennington, "I wish I could think, but my head aches
as though it would split and my tooth is putting up more trouble than I
ever knew there was in the world. And, in this racked condition, I'm to
go and put myself on the pap-sheet. In what way shall I do it, Hallam?
Can't you suggest something?"

"Yes," retorted Hallam with great energy. "Go to the medical officer and
tell him how your tooth troubles you. Tell him what you tried on shore.
I'll go with you, if you want."

"Will you, old man? I'll be a thousand times obliged!"

So the pair went off in search of the sick-bay, as the hospital part of
a battleship is called. The surgeon was not in his office adjoining, but
the hospital steward called him over one of the ship telephones,
informing him that a midshipman was suffering with an ulcerated tooth.

Dr. Mackenzie came at once, turned on a reflector light, and gazed into
Midshipman Pennington's mouth.

"Have you tried to treat this tooth yourself, in any 
way?" queried the
ship's surgeon.

"Yes, sir; I was so crazy with the pain, while in Annapolis, that I am
afraid I did something that will get me into trouble," replied
Pennington, with a quiver in his voice.

"What was that?" asked Dr. Mackenzie, glancing at him sharply. "Did you
try the aid of liquor?"

"Worse, I'm afraid, sir."

"Worse?"

Pennington told of his experience with the opium pipe.

"That's no good whatever for a toothache, sir," growled Dr. Mackenzie.
"Besides, it's a serious breach of discipline. I shall have to report
you, Mr. Pennington."

"I expected it, sir," replied Pennington meekly.

"However, the report won't cure your toothache," continued Dr. Mackenzie
in a milder tone. "We'll attend to that first."

The surgeon busied himself with dissolving a drug in a small quantity of
water. This he took up in a hypodermic needle and injected into the
lower jaw.

"The ache ought to stop in ten minutes, sir," continued the surgeon,
turning to enter some memoranda in his record book.

After that the surgeon called up the ship's commander over the 'phone,
and made known Pennington's report.

"Mr. Pennington, Captain Scott directs that you report at his office
immediately," said the surgeon, as he turned away from the telephone.

"Very good, sir. Thank you, sir."

Both midshipmen saluted, then left the sick-bay.

"This is where you have to go up alone, I guess," hinted Midshipman
Hallam.

"I'm afraid so," sighed Pennington.

"However, I'll be on the quarter-deck, and, if I'm wanted, you can send
there for me."

"Thank you, old man. You're worth a brigade of Darrins--confound the
greasing meddler!"

"Darrin acted according to his best lights on the subject of duty,"
remonstrated Mr. Hallam mildly.

"His best lights--bah!" snarled Pennington. "I'll take this all out of
him before I'm through with him!"

Pennington reported to the battleship's commander. After some ten
minutes a marine orderly found Hallam and directed him to go to Captain
Scott's office. Here Hallam repeated as much as was asked of him
con
cerning the doings of the afternoon. Incidentally, the fact of
Midshipman Darrin's report to the police was brought out.

"Mr. Pennington, I shall send you at once, in a launch, over to the
commandant of cadets to report this matter in person to him," said
Captain Scott gravely. "Mr. Hallam, you will go with Mr. Pennington."

Then, after the two had departed, an apprentice messenger went through
the ship calling Dave's name. That young man was summoned to Captain
Scott's office.

"I am in possession of all the facts relating to the unfortunate affair
of Midshipman Pennington, Mr. Darrin," began Captain Scott, after the
interchange of salutes. "Will you tell me why you reported the affair to
the police?"

"I went to the police, sir," Dave replied, "because I was aware that
many members of the new fourth class are away from home for the first
time in their lives. I was afraid, sir, that possibly some of the new
midshipmen might, during one of their town-leaves, be tempted to try for
a new experience."

"A very excellent reason, Mr. Darrin, and I commend you heartily for it.
I shall also report your exemplary conduct to the commandant of
midshipmen. You have, in my opinion, Mr. Darrin, displayed very good
judgment, and you acted upon that judgment with promptness and decision.
But I am afraid," continued the Navy captain dryly, "that you have done
something that will make you highly unpopular, for a while, with some of
the members of your class."

"I hope not, sir," replied Dave.

"So do I," smiled Captain Scott "I am willing to find myself a poor
prophet. That is all, Mr. Darrin."

Once more saluting, Dave left the commanding officer's presence. Almost
the first classmate into whom he stumbled was Dan Dalzell.

"Well, from what quarter does the wind blow!" murmured Dan.

Darrin repeated the interview that he had just had.

"I'm afraid, Dave, little giant, that you've planted something of a mine
under yourself," murmured Dalzell.

"I feel as much convinced as ever, Danny boy, that I did just what I
should have done,
" replied Darrin seriously.

"And so does Captain Scott, and so will the commandant," replied Dan.
"But winning the commendation of your superior officers doesn't always
imply that you'll get much praise from your classmates."

"Unfortunately, you are quite right," smiled Dave. "Still, I'd do the
same thing over again."

"Oh, of course you would," assented Dan. "That's because you're Dave
Darrin."

Here a voice like a bass horn was heard.

"All third classmen report to the quarter-deck immediately!"

This order was repeated in other parts of the ship. Midshipmen gathered
with a rush, Pennington and Hallam being the only members absent. As
soon as the third classmen, or "youngsters," as they are called in
midshipman parlance, had formed, the orders were read off dividing them
into sections for practical instruction aboard ship during the cruise.

Dave's name was one of the first read off. He was assigned to duty as
section leader for the first section in electrical instruction. Dalzell,
Farley, Hallam, Pennington and others were detailed as members of that
section.

The same section was also designated for steam instruction, Dalzell
being made leader of the section in this branch.

The class was then dismissed. Somewhat later Pennington and Hallam
returned from their interview with the commandant.

Hallam at once sought out Dave.

"Darry, old man," murmured Hallam, "Pen is as crazy as a hornet against
you. As he had taken the first step by sticking himself on the pap-sheet
(placing himself on report), the commandant said he would make the
punishment a lighter one."

"What did Pen get?" queried Dave.

"Fifty demerits, with all the loss of privileges that fifty carry."

"He's lucky," declared Dave promptly. "Had the report come from other
sources, he would have been dismissed from the service."

"If Pen's lucky," rejoined Hallam, "he doesn't seem to realize the fact.
He's calling you about everything."

"He can keep that up," flashed Dave, "until his toothache leaves him.
Then, if he tries to carry it any further, P
en will collide with one of
my fists!"

Not much later a call sounded summoning the youngsters to the
midshipmen's mess. Dave was glad to note that Pennington sat at some
distance from him at table.

While the meal was in progress the "Massachusetts" and the other
battleships got under way. The midshipmen were on deck, an hour later,
when the fleet came to anchor for the night, some miles down Chesapeake
Bay.

Before the youngsters were ordered to their berths that night Third
Classman Pennington had found opportunity to do a good deal of talking
to a few comrades who would listen to him.

Pennington was determined to stir up a hornet's nest for Dave Darrin.

CHAPTER III

MIDSHIPMAN PENNINGTON GOES TOO FAR

At eight o'clock the following morning the various sections were formed
and marched to the deck.

Dave reported:

"All present, sir."

The chief electrician was now summoned, and to him the section was
turned over. This young man, Whittam, by name, was an enlisted man, but
a bright young sample of what the Navy can do for the boy who enlists as
an apprentice.

"You will take your orders from Mr. Whittam as though he were an
officer," directed the officer, his words intended for all members of
the section, though he looked only at Darrin.

Dave saluted, then, as Chief Electrician Whittam turned to lead the way,
Dave called quietly:

"Section, left wheel--march!"

They followed Whittam down into the dynamo room, an interesting spot for
a machinist.

"It's fine," muttered Dan, as he stared about him at the bright metal
work, the switch-board and the revolving machines. "But I'm afraid I
couldn't learn the use and sense of all this in five years."

"Silence in the section," commanded Dave, turning around upon his chum.

Whittam now began a short, preliminary talk upon the subjects in which
the midshipmen would be required to qualify.

"One of the first and most important requests I have to make," said
Whittam presently, "is that none of you touch the switches, except by
direction. None of you can guess the harm th
at might follow the careless
and ignorant handling of a switch."

"It's pretty cheeky for an enlisted man to talk to midshipmen about
ignorance," whispered Pennington to Farley.

"Oh, I don't know--" Farley started to reply, but Darrin's quiet voice
broke in with authority:

"Cease talking in section."

Farley knew this to be a merited rebuke, and accepted it as such, but
Pennington's face went violently red.

"Confound that grease-spot-chaser," growled Pen. "He'll be bound to take
it out of me as long as the cruise lasts. But I'll get even with him. No
cheap greaser is going to ride over me!"

That morning none of the midshipmen were called upon to handle any of
the fascinating-looking machinery. Nearly the whole of this tour of
practical instruction was taken up by the remarks of the chief
electrician. As he spoke, Whittam moved over to one piece or another of
mechanism and explained its uses. Finally, he began to question the
attentive young men, to see how much of his instruction they had
absorbed.

"This is a shame, to set an enlisted man up over us as quiz-master, just
to see how little we know," growled Pennington; but this time he had the
good sense not to address his remark to anyone.

Pennington was not yet in good shape, after his harrowing experiences of
the day before.

Ere the tour of instruction was over, he began to shift somewhat
uneasily.

Then his attention began to wander.

A brilliantly shining brass rod near him caught his eye. Something about
the glossy metal fascinated him.

Once or twice Pen put out his hand to touch the rod, but as quickly
reconsidered and drew back his hand.

At last, however, the temptation proved too strong. He slid one hand
along the rail.

"Here, sir, don't handle that!" rasped in the voice of Whittam.

Pennington drew back his hand, a flush mounting to his face.

"The fellow has no right to talk to a midshipman in that fashion!"
quivered Pennington to himself. "But it was the fault of that low-minded
greaser Darrin, anyway. Darrin saw me, and he glanced swiftly at 
the
chief electrician to draw attention to me."

It is only just to Pennington to state that he actually believed he had
seen Dave do this. Darrin, however, was not guilty of the act. He had in
no way sought to direct attention at Pennington.

Towards the close of the tour the officer in whose department this
instruction fell passed through the dynamo room.

"Are there any breaches of conduct to be reported, Whittam?" inquired
the officer, halting.

"Nothing worth mentioning, sir," replied the chief electrician.

"I asked you, Whittam, whether there had been any breaches of conduct,"
retorted the officer with some asperity.

"One midshipman, sir, after having been instructed to touch nothing,
rested his hand on one of the brass rods."

"His name?"

"I don't know the names of many of the young gentlemen yet, sir, so I
don't know the particular midshipman's name, sir."

"Then point him out to me," insisted the officer.

There was hardly any need to do so. Pennington's face, flushed with
mortification, was sufficient identification. But the chief electrician
stepped over, halting in front of the hapless one, and said:

"This is the young gentleman, sir."

"Your name, sir?" demanded the officer.

"Pennington, sir."

"Mr. Pennington, you will place yourself on the report, sir, for
disobedience of orders," commanded the officer. "Is this the only case,
Whittam?"

"The only case, sir."

The officer passed out of the dynamo room, leaving the unlucky one more
than ever angry with Darrin, whom he incorrectly charged with his
present trouble.

The recall sounding, Dave turned to Whittam, saying crisply but
pleasantly:

"Thank you for our instruction."

"He's thanking the fellow for my new scrape," growled Pennington
inwardly.

Dave marched his section back to deck and dismissed it. Dan Dalzell, as
section leader in steam instruction, immediately re-formed it.

"You will report in the engine-room, Mr. Dalzell, to
Lieutenant-Commander Forman, who is chief engineer of this ship. He will
assign you to an instructor."

"Aye, aye
, sir," Dan replied, saluting. "Section, right wheel--march!"

Dan already knew where, down in the bowels of the great battleship, to
find the engine room.

Reaching that department, Dan halted his section.

"Section all present, sir," reported Dan, saluting a strange officer,
who, however, wore the insignia of a lieutenant-commander.

"Your name, sir?" inquired the officer.

"Dalzell, sir."

"Let your section break ranks. Then you may all follow me, and keep your
eyes open, for you will go through one or two dark places."

"Aye, aye, sir. Section break ranks."

Lieutenant-Commander Forman led the way, with all the members of the
section wondering what was to be the nature of their first day's work in
the engineer department.

Descending lower into the ship, the chief engineer led the young middies
over a grating, and paused at the head of an iron ladder.

"Pass down in orderly fashion, single file," directed the chief
engineer, halting. "When at the foot of this ladder, cross a grating to
port side, and then descend a second ladder, which you will find."

All the midshipmen went down the first ladder in silence. Dan, who had
preceded the others, crossed the grating and found the second ladder.

Once more these youngsters descended. Pennington, as though by mere
accident, succeeded in following Dave Darrin down the ladder.

Just as they were near the bottom Dave felt a foot descend upon his
shoulder, almost with a kick, and then rest there with a crushing
pressure.

It hurt keenly until Darrin was able to dodge out from under and
hurriedly reach the bottom.

"Pardon, whoever you are," came a gruff voice.

Dave, with his shoulder crippled a good deal, and paining keenly, halted
as soon as his foot had touched bottom. It was dark down there, though
some reflected light came from an incandescent light at a distance.

Dave waited, to peer into the face of the man who had stepped on his
shoulder.

It was Pennington, of course!

"I'll take pains not to go down ahead of you again, or to follow you up
a ladder," grunted 
Darrin suspiciously.

"Oh, are you the man on whose shoulder my foot rested?" asked
Pennington, with apparent curiosity.

"Didn't you know it!" questioned Darrin, looking straight into the
other's eyes.

Instead of answering intelligibly, Pennington turned and walked away a
few feet.

"Perhaps that fellow thinks he's going to vent his spite on me in a lot
of petty ways," murmured Dave. "If that is the idea he has in his head,
he's going to wake up one of these days!"

Following the last midshipman came Lieutenant-Commander Forman.

"After me, gentlemen," directed the chief engineer. He turned down a
narrow passage, only a few feet long, and came out in the furnace room.

Here huge fires glowed through the furnace doors. Four of the Navy's
firemen stood resting on their shovels. Instantly, on perceiving the
chief engineer, however, the men stood at attention.

"Pass the word for the chief water tender," ordered the engineer,
turning to one of the firemen.

The messenger soon came back with a pleasant-faced, stalwart man of
forty.

"Heistand," ordered the chief engineer, "give these members of the first
section, third: class, steam instruction, a thorough drill in firing."

"Aye, aye, sir," replied the chief water tender, saluting.

"Heistand's orders are mine, Mr. Dalzell," continued the
lieutenant-commander, facing Dan. "Preserve order in your section."

"Aye, aye, sir," replied Dan, saluting. Acknowledging this courtesy in
kind, the chief engineer turned and left the furnace room.

Heistand was presumably of German parentage, though he had no accent. He
struck the midshipmen as being a pleasant, wholesome fellow, though the
water tenders and firemen of the "Massachusetts" knew that he could be
extremely strict and grim at need.

"You will now, young gentlemen," began Heistand, "proceed to learn all
about priming a furnace, lighting, building, cleaning and generally
taking care of a fire. Two furnaces have been left idle for this
instruction."

But two of the regular firemen now remained in the room. These were
o
rdered to hustle out coal before boilers B and D. Then Heistand taught
the members of the section how to swing a shovel to the best advantage
so as to get in a maximum of coal with the least effort. He also
illustrated two or three incorrect ways of shoveling coal.

"The idea of making coal heavers out of us!" growled a much-disgusted
voice.

Dan did not see who the speaker was, but his eyes flashed as he turned
and rasped out:

"Silence in the section! Speak only to ask for information, and then at
the proper time."

"Another young autocrat!" muttered a voice.

"Wait one moment, please, Heistand," begged Dan. Then, wheeling squarely
about, and facing all the members of the section, he declared with
emphasis:

"If there's any more unauthorized talking I shall feel obliged to pass
the word above that discipline is in a bad way in this section."

Then he wheeled about once more, facing the chief water tender.

"Now, young gentlemen," resumed the chief water tender, "take your
shovels and fill in lively under boilers B and D."

Three or four times Heistand checked one or another of the midshipmen,
to show him a more correct way of handling the shovel. Yet, in good
time, both furnaces were primed.

"Now, Mr. Dalzell, please detail four members of the section to follow
me with their shovels and bring red coals from under another boiler."

Dan appointed himself, Darrin, Farley and Pennington.

Burning coals were brought and thrown into each furnace, and in a little
while roaring fires were going. These, though not needed for the
handling of the battleship, were permitted to burn for a while, Heistand
explaining to the section practically the uses of the water gauges and
the test cocks. By this time the midshipmen's white working clothes were
liberally sprinkled with coal dust and somewhat smeared with oils.

"And now, young gentlemen, as we have no further use for these fires,
you will next learn how to haul them," announced Heistand.

This was interesting work, but hot and fast. The implements with which
the middies w
orked soon became red-hot at the end. Yet, as all entered
into this novel work with zest, the fires had soon been hauled out on to
the floor plates.

Just as the last of this work was being done Pennington, as an apparent
accident due to excess of zeal, dropped the red-hot end of his implement
across the toe of Darrin's left shoe.

In an instant the leather began to blaze. With swift presence of mind
Dave stepped his right foot on the flame, smothering it at once.

But he was "mad clean through."

"See here, Pen," he muttered, in a low voice, his eyes blazing fiercely
into the other midshipman's, "that is the last piece of impudence that
will be tolerated from you."

Midshipman Pennington's lip curled disdainfully.

Dan had not seen the "accident," but he was near enough to hear the
talking, and he caught Dave at it. So Dan ordered, impartially:

"Mr. Darrin, you will place yourself on report for unauthorized talking
in section!"

Dave flushed still more hotly, but said nothing.

Midshipman Dalzell now marched the section from the furnace room, and
dismissed it. It was near noon, and would soon be time for the middies
to eat.

Dave hurried away, washed, changed his uniform, and then stepped away
swiftly to place himself on the report.

"I was sorry to do that, old chum," murmured Dan, as he met Dave
returning. "But of course I couldn't play favorites. What made you so
far forget yourself?"

"A something that would have had the same effect on you," retorted Dave
grimly. Thereupon he described Pennington's two underhanded assaults
that morning.

"Humph!" muttered Dalzell. "That fellow Pen is bound to go the whole
limit with you."

"He won't go much further," declared Dave, his eyes flashing.

"And the chump ought to know it, too," mused Dan. "The class history of
the last year should have taught him that. But see here, Dave, I don't
believe Pen will do anything openly. He will construct a series of
plausible accidents."

"There will be one thing about him that will be open, if he goes any
further," retorted Dave, "
and that will be his face when he collides
with my fist."

"I hope I see that when it happens," grinned Dalzell. "It's bound to be
entertaining!"

"Wait a second, then. Here comes Pennington now," murmured Dave Darrin
in an undertone.

Pennington, in his immaculate blue uniform, like the chums, came
strolling along the passageway between decks.

He affected not to see the chums, and would have passed by. But Dave,
eyeing him closely, waited until Pen was barely three feet away. Then
Darrin said tersely:

"Mr. Pennington, I wish an understanding with you."

"I don't want any with you," replied Pennington insolently, as he stared
at Dave from under much-raised eyebrows. He would have gone by, but Dave
sprang squarely in front of him.

"Just wait a moment!" warned Dave rather imperiously, for he was aglow
with justifiable indignation.

"Well?" demanded Pennington halting. "Out with it, whatever you may
think you have to say."

"I have two things to speak about," replied Dave, trying to control his
voice. "In the first place, while going down the ladders to the furnaces
this morning, you stepped on my shoulder."

"Well!" insisted Pennington coldly.

"The second thing you did was, when hauling the fires, to drop red-hot
metal across one of my shoes, setting it on fire."

"Well?" insisted Pennington more coldly.

"If you mean to contend that either one was an accident," resumed Dave,
"then--"

But he found himself obliged to pause for a moment in order to steady
his voice.

"Well?" asked Pennington with more insolence than ever.

"If you make such pretense in either case," tittered Dave Darrin, "then
you're a liar!"

"Fellow!" sputtered Pennington, turning white with anger.

"I mean what I say, and I can back it up," muttered Darrin.

"Then I'll make you eat your words!" roared Pennington.

Clenching his fists and with the boxer's attitude, Pen aimed two swift
blows at Darrin.

Neither blow reached, however, for Dave dodged out of the way. Then
Darrin struck back, a straight, true, forceful blow that landed on the
othe
r midshipman's nose, knocking him down.

Pennington staggered somewhat when he rose, but he was quickly up, none
the less, and ready for anything that might happen.

All of a sudden Dan Dalzell felt his own heart going down into his
shoes. One of the ship's officers had just entered the passageway, in
time to see what was going on.

CHAPTER IV

A LITTLE MEETING ASHORE

"Stop it, both of you," whispered Dan.

"Stand at attention, ready to salute the officer."

Pennington, with the blood flowing from his damaged nose, would have
made a most ludicrous figure saluting!

The instant that he saw such evidence as Pen's nose presented the
officer would be bound to make inquiries.

Then, just as surely, his next step must be to Border the three before
the commandant of midshipmen.

Fighting carries with it a severe penalty. Even Dan was certain to be
reported, through the mere fact of his presence there, as aiding in a
fight. And those who aid are punished as severely as the principals
themselves.

It was a tense, fearsome instant, for midshipmen have been dismissed
from the Naval Academy for this very offense.

The passage was not brilliantly lighted.

The on-coming officer, a lieutenant, junior grade, was looking at the
floor as he came along.

Suddenly he paused, seemed lost in thought, then wheeled and walked back
whence he had come.

Dan breathed more easily. Dave heaved a sigh of relief.

As for Pennington, that midshipman had wheeled and was stealing rapidly
down the passageway, intent only on escape.

"That was the closest squeak we'll ever have without being ragged cold,"
murmured Dalzell tremulously.

"Where is Pennington?" demanded Dave, wheeling about after he had
watched the Naval lieutenant out of sight.

"Ducked out of sight, like a submarine," chuckled Dan.

At that moment the call for midshipmen's dinner formation sounded. Dave
and Dan were ready.

Pennington showed up just after the line had started to march into the
midshipmen's mess tables.

To the inquiry of the officer in charge, Pen lamely explained
 that he
had bumped his nose into something hard in a poorly lighted passageway.

Though the officer accepted the excuse, he smiled within himself.

"It wasn't iron or steel that bumped that young man's nose," thought the
officer.

"Oh, the middies haven't changed a lot since I boned at Annapolis!"

Pennington's nose was no very lovely member of his face at that moment.
It had been struck hard, mashed rather flat, and now looked like a red
bulb.

"Meet with an accident, Pen?" asked Hallam curiously at table.

"Quit your kidding, please," requested Pennington sulkily.

That directed the curious glances of other middies at Pennington's new
bulbous nose.

The young man was so brusque about it, however, that other table mates
ceased quizzing him.

Yet, as soon as the meal was over, many a youngster asked others of his
class for news regarding Pen. But none possessed it.

During the brief rest that followed the meal, however, Midshipman
Pennington made it his business to try to meet Dave Darrin alone. He
succeeded, finding Dave staring off across the water at the port rail.

"Of course, Mr. Darrin," began the other midshipman, in a voice
suggestive of ice, "you are aware that the incident of an hour ago
cannot be allowed to pass unnoticed."

"I don't believe there's any danger of that," retorted Darrin, with an
ironical glance at Pennington's damaged-looking nose.

"Confound you, sir," hissed the other midshipman, "don't you dare to be
insolent with me."

"Why, I had thought," observed Dave, "that, of your own choice, the
period of courtesies between us had passed."

"I shall call you out, Mr. Darrin!"

"You'll find my hearing excellent," smiled Dave. "I shall make but one
stipulation."

"I'll do you the favor of asking what that stipulation is," sneered
Pennington.

"Why, after the narrow escape we had from being caught and reported, an
hour or so ago, I shall ask that the fight be held where we are not so
likely to be caught at it. I don't care about being dropped from the
Naval Academy, nor do I believe you do."

"
It would be a good thing for the service, if one of us were to be
dropped," sneered Pennington.

"Yes! Oh, well, you can easily procure writing materials from the
captain's clerk," volunteered Dave generously. "On a cruise, I believe,
a resignation is sent direct to the commandant of midshipmen."

This ridicule served only to fan the flame of Pennington's wrath.

"Darrin," he hissed, "the Academy isn't big enough to hold us both!"

"But I've already told you how to get out," protested Dave coolly.

"I don't intend to get out!"

"No more do I," rejoined Dave. "I won't even toss pennies with you to
find out who quits the service."

"Mr. Darrin, you are merely seeking to divert my mind from what I have
said."

"What did you say--particularly?"

"That you would have to fight me."

"I have already signified my entire willingness, Mr. Pennington. To that
I really can add nothing."

Fourth classmen are always addressed as "mister," and they must use the
same "handle to the name" when addressing upper classmen. But members of
the three upper classes resort to the use of "mister," in addressing
classmates, only when they wish to be offensive or nearly so.

"I will send a friend to meet you," Pennington continued.

"Why, I thought," bantered Darrin ironically, "that you were going to
fight me yourself."

"So I am--be sure of it. I will amend my statement by saying that I will
send a second to see you."

"Save time by sending him to Dalzell."

"Very good, Mr. Darrin."

"Is that all you wished to say to me?"

"Yes."

"Very good, Mr. Pennington."

With two very stiff nods the midshipmen parted.

Pennington hastened at once in search of Hallam.

"Will you serve me, old man?" queried Pennington.

"Sorry, but----"

"Well, you see, Pen, not knowing all the facts of the case, I must admit
that all my sympathies are with Darrin."

"All your sympathies?" echoed Pen, frowning.

"Well, nearly all, anyway. You see, I've known and observed Darrin for a
full year now, and I don't believe patient old Darry is the one to start
any trouble.
"

"He called me a liar," protested Pennington.

"Did he?" gasped Hallam.

"Well, he qualified the statement, but his way of saying it was as
offensive as the direct lie could have been."

"So you're bent on fighting Darry?"

"I am."

"Too bad!" muttered Hallam, shaking his head.

"Are you anxious for your idol?" asked Pen in a disagreeable tone.

"No, Penny; it's you that I'm concerned about in my own mind. You're
going next to a very hard proposition. Darry is patient--almost as
patient as the proverbial camel--but when he fights he fights! You'll be
hammered to a pulp, Pen."

"Pooh!"

"No one has yet beaten Darrin at a fist fight."

"There always has to be a first time, you know."

"And you think you're It?"

"As far as Darrin is concerned--yes."

"Too bad--too bad!" sighed Hallam. "I'm afraid, Penny, that the heat in
the furnace room was too much for you this morning."

"Then you won't serve as one of my seconds?"

"The honor is most regretfully declined," replied Hallam in a tone of
mock sadness.

"You want to see Darrin win?"

"If there has to be a fight, I do," replied Midshipman Hallam.

"Don't bet your money on him, anyway."

"I'm not a gambler, Penny, and I don't bet," replied Hallam, with a
dignity that, somehow, ended the conversation.

Pennington had considerable difficulty, at first, in finding a second.
At last, however, he induced Decker and Briggs to represent him.

These two midshipmen went to see Dan Dalzell.

"Wait until I send for Mr. Farley," proposed Dalzell. He soon had that
midshipman, who was wholly willing to serve Darrin in any capacity.

"We're ready to have the fight this evening," proposed Midshipman
Decker.

"We're not," retorted Dan, with vigor.

"Why not?"

"This forenoon Pennington deliberately stepped on Darrin's shoulder,
with such force as to lame it a good deal," replied Dan. "Our man
insists that he has a right to rest his shoulder, and to wait until
to-morrow."

"But to-morrow we have a short shore liberty at Hampton Roads,"
remonstrated Briggs.

"Yes; and during that shor
e liberty we can have the fight more safely
than on board ship," insisted Dalzell.

"But we intended to devote our shore leave to pleasure," objected
Decker.

"You'll find plenty of pleasure, if you accept our proposition," urged
Dan dryly. "At any rate, we won't hear of Darrin fighting before
to-morrow. He must have to-night to rest that shoulder."

"All right; so be it," growled Decker, after a side glance at Briggs.

"On shore, at some point to be selected by the seconds?" asked Dan
Dalzell.

"Yes; that's agreed."

Details as to whom to invite as referee and time-keeper were also
arranged.

"I suppose we'll have to use up our shore leave that way, then," grunted
Pennington, when told of the arrangement.

"There's one way you can save the day," grinned Decker.

"How?"

"Put Darrin to sleep in the first round, then hurriedly dress and leave,
and enjoy your time on shore."

"But Darrin is a very able man with his fists," observed Pennington.

"Yes; but you're a mile bigger and heavier, and you're spry, too. You
ought to handle him with all the ease in the world."

"I don't know," muttered Pennington, who didn't intend to make the
mistake of bragging in advance. "I'll do my best, of course."

"Oh, you'll win out, if you're awake," predicted Midshipman Briggs
confidently.

When the cadets were called, the following morning, they found the
battleship fleet at anchor in Hampton Roads.

CHAPTER V

WHEN THE SECONDS WONDERED

One after another the launches sped ashore, carrying their swarms of
distinguished looking young midshipmen.

The fight party managed to get off all in the same boat, and on one of
the earliest trips.

Pennington was to have ordinary shore leave on the cruise, his fifty
demerits to be paid for by loss of privileges on his return to the Naval
Academy.

"Decker," proposed Dan, "you and I can skip away and find a good place
in no time. Then we can come back after the others."

"That's agreeable to me," nodded Midshipman Decker.

In twenty minutes the two seconds were back.

"We've found just the place
," announced Decker. "And it isn't more than
three minutes' walk from here. Will you all hurry along?"

"The place" turned out to be a barn that had not been used for a year or
more. The floor was almost immaculately clean. In consideration of two
dollars handed him, the owner had agreed to display no curiosity, and
not to mention the affair to any one.

"How do you like it, Darry?" asked Dan anxiously.

"It will suit me as well as any other place," responded Dave, slipping
off his blouse, folding it neatly and putting it aside, his uniform cap
following.

"And you?" asked Decker of his man.

"The floor's hard, but I don't expect to be the man to hit it," replied
Pennington.

In five minutes both midshipmen were attired for their "affair." Between
them the different members of the party had smuggled ashore shoes, old
trousers and belts for the fighters.

It being a class affair, Remington, of the third class, had come along
as referee, while Dawley; was to be the time-keeper.

"If the principals are ready, let them step forward," ordered Midshipman
Remington, going to the middle of the floor. "Now, I understand that
this is to be a finish fight; rounds, two minutes; rests, two minutes. I
also understand that the principals do not care to shake hands before
the call to mix up."

Darrin and Pennington nodded their assent.

"Take your places, gentlemen," ordered the referee quickly. "Are you
ready, gentlemen?"

"Yes," came from both principals.

"Time!"

Both men had their guards up. As the word left the referee's lips each
tried two or three passes which the other blocked. Midshipman Pennington
was trying to take his opponent's "measure."

Then Dave ducked, darted, dodged and wheeled about. Pennington had to
follow him, and it made the latter angry.

"Stand up and fight, can't you," hissed Pen.

"Silence during the rounds, Mr. Pennington," admonished the referee
quietly. "Let the officials do all the talking that may be necessary."

Dave, as he dodged again, and came up unscathed, grinned broadly over
this rebuke. 
That grin made Pen angrier than anything else could have
done.

"I'll wipe that grin off his face!" muttered Pennington angrily.

And this very thing Pennington tried hard to do. He was quick on his own
feet, and for a few seconds he followed the dodging Darrin about,
raining in blows that required all of Dave's adroitness to escape.

Dave's very success, however, made his opponent all the angrier. From
annoyance, followed by excessive irritation, Pennington went into almost
blind rage--and the man who does that, anywhere in life, must always pay
for it.

Suddenly Dave swung his right in on the point of Pen's chin with a force
that jolted the larger midshipman. As part of the same movement,
Darrin's left crashed against Pennington's nose.

Then, out of chivalry, Dave dropped back, to give Pen a few moments, in
case he needed them, to get his wits back.

"Time!" roared Dawley, and Pennington's seconds pounced upon him and
bore him away to his corner.

"Now I know how that fellow Darrin wins his fights," growled Pennington
in an undertone. "He keeps on running away until he has the other man
gasping for breath. Then Darrin jumps in and wins."

"The method doesn't much matter," commented Briggs dryly, as he and
Decker worked over their man. "It's the result that counts. Rush Darry
into a tight corner, Pen, and then slam him hard and sufficiently."

"Thanks, fellows; now I'm all right for the second round." muttered
Midshipman Pennington.

In a few seconds more Dave and his opponent were hard at work.

Dave still used his footwork, and most cleverly. Yet, wherever he went,
Pen followed him nimbly. It didn't look so one sided now.

Then Pennington, at last, managed to deliver one blow on Darrin's right
short ribs. It took a lot of Dave's spare wind; he raced about, seeking
to regain his wind before allowing close quarters. But at last
Pennington closed in again, and, after a swift feint, tried to land the
same short-rib blow.

Darrin was watching, and blocked. Then, his temples reddening with
anger, Dave swung in a hu
ge one that crashed in under Pennington's right
ear.

"Time!" shouted Dawley, just as Pen went to the floor in a heap. That
saved the larger midshipman from having to take the count. His seconds
had him ready at the call for the third round.

Now, suddenly, Darrin seemed to change not only his tactics, but his
whole personality. To his opponent Dave seemed suddenly transformed into
a dancing demon.

It was about the same old footwork, but it was aggressive now, instead
of being defensive.

First, Dave landed a light tap on the already suffering nose. A few
seconds later he landed on the point of Pen's chin, though not hard
enough to send his man down. Then a rather light blow on the jaw, just
under Pen's right ear again. The larger midshipman was now thoroughly
alarmed. He feared that Darrin could do whatever he willed, and shivered
with wonder as to when the knockout blow would come.

The truth was, Pennington was still putting up a better battle than he
himself realized, and Darrin was not disposed to take any foolish
chances through rushing the affair. Thus, the third round ended.

By the time that they came up for the fourth round, after both men had
undergone some vigorous handling by their respective seconds, Pennington
was a good deal revived and far more confident.

Dave's tactics were the same in the fourth round. Pennington didn't find
time to develop much in the way of tactics for himself, save to defend
himself.

During the first minute no important blows were landed on either side.
Then, suddenly, Dave darted in and under, and brought a right-arm hook
against Pen's nose in a way that started that member to bleeding again,
and with a steady flow.

That jarred the larger midshipman. He plunged in, heavily and blindly,
blocking one of Darrin's blows by wrapping both arms around him.

"None of that, Mr. Pennington! Break away fast!" ordered Midshipman
Remington quickly.

Dave took a fair get away, not attempting to strike as the clinch was
broken. But an instant later Dave came back, dancing all around h
is
dazed opponent, landing on the short ribs, on the breast bone, under
either ear and finally on the tip of the chin.

Pen was sure that none of these blows had been delivered with the force
that Darrin could have sent in.

"Time!" shouted Midshipman Dawley.

The principals retired to their corners, Pennington almost wholly afraid
from the conviction that his antagonist was now merely playing with him
to keep the interest going.

So Pennington was still rather badly scared when the two came together
for the fifth round.

"Get lively, now, gentlemen, if you can," begged Referee Remington.
"Finish this one way or the other, and let us get some of the benefits
of our shore leave."

Pen started by putting more steam behind every blow. Dave, who had used
up so much of his wind by his brilliant footwork, began to find it
harder to keep the upper hand.

Twice, however, he managed to land body blows. He was trying to drive in
a third when Pennington blocked, following this with a left-arm jab on
Darrin's left jaw that sent the lighter man to the floor.

Instantly Dawley began to count off the seconds.

"--seven, eight, nine, te----"

Dave was up on his feet. Pen tried to make a quick rush, but Darrin
dodged cleverly, them wheeled and faced his opponent as the latter
wheeled about.

After that there was less footwork. Both men stood up to it, as keenly
alert as they could be, each trying to drive home heavy blows. While
they were still at it the call of time sounded.

"Don't let him put it over you, David, little giant!" warned Dan, as the
latter and Farley vigorously massaged Darrin's muscles. "He all but had
you, and there isn't any need of making Pen a present of the meeting."

"I tried to get him," muttered Dave in an undertone, "and I shall go on
trying to the last. But Pennington is pretty nearly superior to anyone
in my class."

"Just waltz in and show him," whispered Dalzell, as the call sounded.

Pennington entered the sixth round with more confidence. He began, at
the outset, to drive in heavy blows, nor did Da
ve do much dodging.

Bump! Twenty-five seconds only of this round had gone when Darrin landed
his right fist with fearful force upon the high point of Pennington's
jaw.

Down went the larger midshipman again. This time he moaned. His eyes
were open, though they had a somewhat glassy look in them.

Dawley was counting off the seconds in measured tones.

"--seven, eight, nine--ten!"

Pen had struggled to rise to his feet, but sank back with a gasp of
despair and rage.

"Mr. Pennington loses the count and the fight," announced Referee
Remington coolly. "I don't believe we're needed here, Dawley. The
seconds can handle the wreck. Come along."

As the two officials of the meeting hustled out of the barn, Dalzell
gave his attention to helping his chum, while Farley went over to offer
his services in getting the vanquished midshipman into shape.

"There were times when I could have closed both of Pennington's eyes,"
murmured Dave to Dan. "But I didn't want to give him any disfiguring
marks that would start questions on board ship."

"You had him whipped from the start," murmured Dan confidently, as he
sprayed, then rubbed Dave's chest and arms.

"Maybe, but I'm not so sure of that," rejoined Darrin. "That fellow
isn't so easy a prize for any one in my class. There were times when I
was all but convinced that he had me."

"Oh, fairy tales!" grunted Dan.

"Have it your own way, then, Danny boy!"

When Darrin and his seconds left the barn they went off to enjoy what
remained of the shore leave. Pennington's seconds finally, at his own
request, left him at an ice cream parlor, where he proposed to remain
until he could return to the big, steel "Massachusetts" without exciting
any wonder over the little time he had remained ashore. Pennington had
strength to walk about, but he was far from being in really good shape,
and preferred to keep quiet.

CHAPTER VI

IN TROUBLE ON FOREIGN SOIL

From Hampton Roads the Battleship Squadron, with the midshipmen on
board, sailed directly for Plymouth, England.

During most of the voyage o
ver slow cruising speed was used. By the time
that England's coast was sighted the third-class middies found they knew
much more about a battleship than they had believed to be possible at
the start of the voyage.

They had served as firemen; they had mastered many of the electrical
details of a battleship; they had received instruction and had "stood
trick" by the engines; there had been some drill with the smaller,
rapid-fire guns, and finally, they had learned at least the rudiments of
"wig-wagging," as signaling by means of signal flags is termed.

It was just before the call to supper formation when England's coast
loomed up. Most of the midshipmen stood at the rail, watching eagerly
for a better glimpse at the coast.

Some of the midshipmen, especially those who came from wealthier
families, had been in England before entering the Naval Academy. These
fortunate ones were questioned eagerly by their comrades.

The battleships were well in sight of Eastern King Point when the
midshipmen's call for supper formation sounded. Feeling that they would
much have preferred to wait for their supper, the young men hastened
below.

After the line was formed it seemed to the impatient young men as though
it had never taken so long to read the orders.

Yet there came one welcome order, to the effect that, immediately after
the morning meal, all midshipmen might go to the pay officer and draw
ten dollars, to be charged against their pay accounts.

"That ten dollars apiece looms up large David, little giant," murmured
Dan Dalzell, while the evening meal was in progress.

"We ought to have a lot of fun on it," replied Darrin, who was looking
forward with greatest eagerness to his first visit to any foreign soil.
"But how much shore leave are we to have?"

"Two days, the word is. We'll get it straight in the morning, at
breakfast formation."

In defiance of regulations, Midshipman Pennington, whose father was
wealthy, had several hundred dollars concealed in his baggage. He had
already invited Hallam, Mossworth and Dickey to
 keep in his wake on
shore, and these young men had gladly enough agreed.

"Say, but we're slackening speed!" quivered Dalzell, when the meal was
nearly finished.

"Headway has stopped," declared Darrin a few moments later.

"Listen, everyone!" called Farley. "Don't you hear the rattle of the
anchor chains?"

"Gentlemen, as we're forbidden to make too much racket," proposed
irrepressible Dan, "let us give three silent cheers for Old England!"

Rising in his place, Dan raised his hand aloft, and brought it down, as
his lips silently formed a "hurrah!"

Three times this was done, each time the lips of the midshipmen forming
a silent cheer.

Then Dan, with a mighty swoop of his right arm, let his lips form the
word that everyone knew to be "tiger!"

"Ugh-h-h!" groaned Midshipman Reilly.

"Throw that irresponsible Fenian out!" directed Dan, grinning.

Then the midshipmen turned their attention to the remnants of the meal.

Boom! sounded sharply overhead.

"There goes the twenty-one-gunner," announced Darrin.

When a foreign battleship enters a fortified port the visiting fleet, or
rather, its flagship, fires a national salute of twenty-one guns. After
a short interval following the discharge of the last gun, one of the
forts on shore answers with twenty-one guns. This is one of the methods
of observing the courtesies between nations by their respective fleets.

Ere all the guns had been fired from the flagship, the third classmen
received the rising signal; the class marched out and was dismissed.
Instantly a break was made for deck.

The midshipmen were in good time to see the smoke and hear the roar of
guns from one of the forts on shore.

In the morning the commandant of cadets, as commanding officer of the
squadron, would go ashore with his aide and pay a formal call to the
senior military officer. Later in the day that English officer and one
or two of his staff officers would return the call by coming out to the
flagship. That accomplished, all the required courtesies would have been
observed.

It was still bro
ad daylight, for in summer the English twilight is a
long one, and darkness does not settle down until late.

"Oh, if we were only going ashore to-night!" murmured Hallam. There were
many others to echo the thought, but all knew that it could not be done.

"Couldn't we find a trick for slipping ashore after lights out?" eagerly
queried Dickey, who was not noted as a "greaser."

"Could we?" quivered Hallam, who, with few demerits against him, felt
inclined to take a chance.

But Pennington, to whom he appealed, shook his head.

"Too big a risk, Hally," replied Pen. "And trebly dangerous, with that
greaser, Darrin, in the class."

"Oh, stow that," growled Hallam. "Darrin is no greaser. You've got him
on your black books--that's all."

"He is a greaser, I tell you," cried Pennington fiercely.

There were a score of midshipmen in this group, and many of them nodded
approvingly at Pennington's statement. Though still a class leader, Dave
had lost some of his popularity since his report to the police of
Annapolis.

So the middies turned in, that night, with unsatisfied dreams of shore
life in England.

Soon after breakfast the next morning, however, every midshipman had
drawn his ten dollars, even to Pennington, who had no use for such a
trifling amount.

As fast as possible the launches ranged alongside at the side gangway,
taking off groups of midshipmen, everyone of whom had been cautioned to
be at dock in time to board a launch in season for supper formation.

Pennington and his party were among the first to land. They hurried
away.

It was on the second trip of one of the launches that Dave, Dan and
Farley made their get away. These three chums had agreed to stick
together during the day. They landed at the Great Western Docks, to find
themselves surrounded by eager British cabbies.

"Are we going to take a cab and get more quickly and intelligently to
the best part of the town to see?" asked Farley.

"I don't vote for it," replied Darrin. "We have only five dollars apiece
for each of the two days we're to be asho
re. I move that we put in the
forenoon, anyway, in prowling about the town for ourselves. We'll learn
more than we would by riding."

"Come on, then," approved Dan.

Plymouth is an old-fashioned English seaport that has been rather famous
ever since the thirteenth century. Many parts of the town, including
whole streets, look as though the houses had been built since that time.
This is especially true of many of the streets near the water front.

For two hours the three middies roamed through the streets, often
meeting fellow classmen. Wherever the young midshipmen went many of the
English workmen and shopkeepers raised their hats in friendly salute of
the American uniform.

"We don't seem to run across Pen's gang anywhere," remarked Farley at
last.

"Oh, no," smiled Dave. "That's a capitalistic crowd. They'll hit only
the high spots."

Nevertheless, these three poor-in-purse midshipmen enjoyed themselves
hugely in seeing the quaint old town. At noon they found a real old
English chop house, where they enjoyed a famous meal.

"I wish we could slip some of these little mutton pies back with us!"
sighed Dan wistfully.

In the afternoon the three chums saw the newer market place, where all
three bought small souvenirs for their mothers at home. Darrin also
secured a little remembrance present for his sweetheart, Belle Meade.

The guild hall and some of the other famous buildings were visited.

Later in the afternoon Dave began to inspect his watch every two or
three minutes.

"No need for us to worry, with Dave's eye glued to his watch," laughed
Dan.

"Come on, fellows," summoned Darrin finally. "We haven't more than time
now to make the dock and get back to supper formation."

"Take a cab?" asked Farley. "You know, we've found that they're vastly
cheaper than American cabs."

"No-o-o, not for me," decided Dave. "We'll need the rest of our shore
money to-morrow, and our legs are good and sturdy."

Yet even careful Dave, as it turned out, had allowed no more than time.
The chums reached the dock in time to see the la
unches half way between
the fleet and shore. Some forty other midshipmen stood waiting on the
dock.

Among these were Pennington and his party, all looking highly satisfied
with their day's sport, as indeed they were.

Pennington's eyes gleamed when he caught sight of Darrin, Dalzell and
Farley--for Pen had a scheme of his own in mind.

Not far from Pennington stood a little Englishman with keen eyes and a
jovial face. Pen stepped over to him.

"There are the three midshipmen I was telling you about," whispered
Pennington, slipping a half sovereign into the Englishman's hand. "You
thoroughly understand your part in the joke, don't you?"

"Don't h'I, though--just, sir!" laughed the undersized Englishman, and
strolled away.

Darrin and his friends were soon informed by classmates that the
launches now making shore-ward were coming in on their last trip for
midshipmen.

"Well, we're here in plenty of time," sighed Dave contentedly.

"Oh, I knew we'd be, with you holding the watch," laughed Dan in his
satisfied way.

As the three stood apart they were joined by the undersized Englishman,
who touched his hat to them with a show of great respect.

"Young gentlemen," he inquired, "h'I suppose, h'of course, you've 'ad a
look h'at the anchor h'of Sir Francis Drake's flagship, the time 'e went
h'out h'and sank the great Spanish h'Armada?"

"Why, no, my friend," replied Dave, looking at the man with interest.
"Is that here at Plymouth?"

"H'assuredly, sir. H'and h'only a minute's walk h'over to that shed
yonder, sir. H'if you'll come with me, young gentlemen, h'I'll show h'it
to you. H'it's one of h'our biggest sights, h'and it's in me own
custody, at present. Come this way, young gentlemen."

"That sounds like something worth seeing," declared Dave to his
comrades. "Come along. It'll take the launches at least six minutes to
get in, and then they'll stay tied up here for another five minutes."

With only a single backward glance at the young midshipmen, the
undersized Englishman was already leading the way.

At quickened p
ace the young midshipmen reached the shed that had been
indicated. Their guide had already drawn a key from a pocket, and had
unsnapped the heavy padlock.

"Step right in, young gentlemen, h'and h'I'll follow h'and show h'it to
you."

Unsuspecting, the three middies stepped inside the darkened shed.
Suddenly the door banged, and a padlock clicked outside.

"Here, stop that, you rascally joker!" roared Dalzell, wheeling about.
"What does this mean?"

"Big trouble!" spoke Dave Darrin seriously and with a face from which
the color was fast receding.

CHAPTER VII

PENNINGTON GETS HIS WISH

"The scoundrel!" gasped Farley, his face whiter than any of the others.

Dave was already at the door, trying to force it open. But he might
almost as well have tried to lift one of the twelve-inch guns of the
battleship "Massachusetts."

"We're locked in--that's sure!" gasped Dalzell, almost dazed by the
catastrophe.

"And what's more, we won't get out in a hurry, unless we can make some
of our classmates hear," declared Dave.

For the next half minute they yelled themselves nearly hoarse, but no
response came.

"What could have been that little cockney's purpose in playing this
shabby trick on us?" demanded Farley.

"Perhaps the cockney thinks we're admirals, with our pockets lined with
gold. Perhaps he and some of his pals intend to rob us, later in the
evening," proposed Dan, with a ghastly grin.

"Any gang would find something of a fight on their hands, then,"
muttered Dave Darrin grimly.

All three were equally at a loss to think of any explanation for such a
"joke" as this. Equally improbable did it seem that any thugs of the
town would expect to reap any harvest from robbing three midshipmen.

Desperately they turned to survey their surroundings. The shed was an
old one, yet strongly built. There were no windows, no other door save
that at which the three middies now stood baffled.

"Another good old yell," proposed Darrin.

It was given with a lusty will, but proved as fruitless as the former
one.

"We don't take the last
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson,
Steve Schulze and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent postpaid, on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CARBOLIC SALVE |
 | |
 | Recommended by Physicians. |
 | |
 | The best Salve in use for all disorders of the Skin, |
 | for Cuts, Burns, Wounds, &c. |
 | |
 | USED IN HOSPITALS. |
 | |
 | SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS. |
 | |
 | PRICE 25 CENTS. |
 | |
 | JOHN F. HENRY, Sole Proprietor, |
 | No. 8 College Place, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer duality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | Sole Agents for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol 1. No. 26.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,

By ORPHEUS C. KERR,

Continued in this Number.

 * * * * *

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

 * * * * *

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bound Volume No. 1. |
 | |
 | The first volume of PUNCHINELLO, ending with No. 26, |
 | September 24, 1870, |
 | |
 | Bound in Fine Cloth, |
 | |
 | will be ready for delivery on Oct. 1, 1870. |
 | |
 | PRICE $2.50. |
 | |
 | Sent postpaid to an
y part of the United States on receipt of |
 | price. |
 | |
 | A copy of the paper for one year, from October 1st, No. 27, |
 | and the Bound Volume (the latter prepaid,) will be sent to |
 | any subscriber for $5.50. |
 | |
 | Three copies for one year, and three Bound Volumes, with an |
 | extra copy of Bound Volume, to any person sending us three |
 | subscriptions for $16.50. |
 | |
 | One copy of paper for one year, with a |
 | fine chromo premium, for------ $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, mailed free .10 |
 | |
 | Back numbers can always be supplied, as the paper is |
 | electrotyped. |
 | |
 | Book canvassers will find this volume a |
 | |
 | Very Saleable Book. |
 | |
 | Orders supplied at a very liberal discount. |
 | |
 | All remittances should be made in |
 | |
 | Post Office orders. |
 | |
 | Canvassers wanted for the paper, |
 | |
 | everywhere. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | Punchinello Publishing Co., |
 | |
 | 83 NASSAU ST., N. Y. |
 | |
 | P.O. Box No, 2783. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for August, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 Broadway |
 | |
 | NEW YORK |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M, |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_
 |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents._ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAILROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at |
 | WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, July, and August, an attractive |
 | and Saleable Work |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO, |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL, |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS, |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2845] |
 | |
 | NEW YORK |
 | |
 | 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS |
 | |
 | The Best and Cheapest |
 | |
 | 256 Broadway |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats, C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew, |
 | commencing May 31. will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8.45, and |
 | Thirty-fourth st. at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers, (Nyack, and |
 | Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill, Hudson |
 | and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge cars in |
 | connection with the day boats will leave on arrival at |
 | Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare $4.25 |
 | from New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat Seneca |
 | will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the 
country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of Our Publishing |
 | Houses, can have the same forwarded by inclosing two |
 | stamps |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, |
 | |
 | [P. O. Box 2783.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORFHEUS C. KERR

CHAPTER XIX.

THE H. AND H. OF J. BUMSTEAD.

The exquisitely sweet month of the perfectly delicious summer-vacation
having come, Miss CAROWTHERS' Young Ladies have returned again, for a
time, to their respective homes, MAGNOLIA PENDRAGON has gone to the city
and her brother, and FLORA POTTS is ridiculously and absurdly alone.

Under the ardent sun of August, Bumsteadville slowly bakes, like an
ogre's family-dish of stuffed cottages and greens, with here and there
some slowly moving object, like a loose vegetable on a sluggish current
of tidal gravy, and the spire of the Ritualistic church shooting-up at
one end like an incorrigibly perpendicular leg of magnified mutton.

Hotter and hotter comes the breath fiery of nature's cookery, until some
of the stuffing boils out of one cottage, in the shape of the Oldest
Inhabitant, who makes his usual annual remark, that this is the Warmest
Day in ninety-eight years, and then simmers away to some cooler nook
amongst the greens. More and more intolerably quivers the atmosphere of
the sylvan oven with stifling fervency, until there oozes from
 beneath
the shingled crust of a vegetarian country-boarding-house a parboiled
guest from the City, who, believing himself almost ready to turn, drifts
feebly to where the roads fork and there is a shade more dun; while, to
the speculative mind, each glowing field of corn, or buckwheat, is an
incipient Meal, and each chimney, or barn, a mere temptation to guess
how many Swallows there may be in it.

Upon the afternoon of such a day as this, Miss POTTS is informed, by a
servant, that Mr. BUMSTEAD has arrived, and, sending her his love, would
be pleased to have her come down stairs to him and bring him a fan.

"Why didn't you tell him I wasn't at home, you absurd thing?" cries the
young girl, hurriedly practicing a series of agitated looks and pensive
smiles before her mirror.

"So I did, Miss," answers the attached menial, "but he'd seen you
looking at him with an opera-glass as he came up the path, and said that
he could hear you taking a clean handkerchief out of tho drawer, on
purpose to receive him with, before he'd got to the door."

"Oh, what shall I do? My hands are so red to-day!" sighs FLCKA, holding
her arms above her head, that the blood may retire from the too pinkish
members.

After a pause, and an adjustment of a curl over her right eye and the
scarf at her waist, to make them look innocent, she yields to the
meteorological mania so strikingly prevalent amongst all the other
characters of this narrative, and says that she will receive the visitor
in the yard, near the pump. Then, casting carelessly over her shoulder
that web-like shawl without which no woman nor spider is complete, she
arranges her lips in the glass for the last time, and, with a garden-hat
hanging from the elbow latest singed, goes down, humming
un-suspiciously, into the open-air, with the guileless bearing of one
wholly unprepared for company.

Resting an elbow upon a low iron patent-pump, near a rustic seat, the
Ritualistic organist, in his vast linen coat and imposing straw hat,
looks not unlike an eccentric garden statue, upon w
hich some prudish
slave of modern conventionalities has placed the summer attire of a
western editor. The great heat of the sun upon his back makes him
irritable, and when Miss POTTS sharply smites with her fan the knuckles
of the hand which he has affably extended to take her by the chin, more
than the usual symptoms of acute inflammation appear at the end of his
nose, and he blows hurriedly upon his wounded digits.

"That hurt like the mischief!" he remarks, in some anger. "I don't know
when I've felt anything smart so."

"Then don't be so horrid," returns the pensive girl, taking a seat
before him upon the rustic settee, and abstractedly arranging her dress
so that only two-thirds of a gaiter-boot can be seen.

Munching cloves, the aroma of which ladens the air all around him, Mr.
BUMSTEAD contemplates her with a calmness which would be enthralling,
but for the nervous twisting of his features under the torments of a
singularly adhesive fly.

"I have come, dear," he observes, slowly, "to know how soon you will be
ready for me to give you your next music-lesson?"

"I prefer that you would not call me your 'dear,'" was the chilling
answer.

The organist thinks for a moment, and then nods his head intelligently.
"You are right," he says, gravely, "--there _might_ be somebody
listening who could not enter into our real feelings. And now, how about
those music-lessons?"

"I don't want any more, thank you," says FLORA, coldly. "While we are
all in mourning for our poor, dear absurd EDDY, it seems like a
perfectly ridiculous mockery to be practicing the scales."

Fanning himself with his straw hat, Mr. BUMSTEAD shakes his bushy head
several times. "You do not discriminate sufficiently," he replies.
"There are kinds of music which, when performed rapidly upon the violin,
fife, or kettle-drum, certainly fill the mind with sentiments
unfavorable to the deeper anguish of human sorrow. Of such, however, is
not the kind made by young girls, which is at all times a help to the
intensity of judicious grief. Let me assure you
, with the candor of an
idolized friend, that some of the saddest hours of my life have been
spent in teaching you to try to sing a humorous aria from DONIZETTI; and
the moments in which I have most sincerely regretted ever having been
born were those in which you have played, in my hearing, the
Drinking-song from _La Traviata_. Believe me, then, my devoted pupil,
there can be nothing at all inconsistent with a prevalence of profound
melancholy in your continued piano-playing; whereas, on the contrary,
your sudden and permanent cessation might at least surprise your friends
and the neighborhood into a light-heartedness temporarily oblivious of
the memory of that dear, missing boy, to whom you could not, I hear,
give the love already bestowed upon me."

"I loved him ridiculously, absurdly, with my whole heart," cries FLORA,
not altogether liking what she has heard. "I'm real sorry, too, that
they think somebody has killed him."

Mr, BUMSTEAD folds his brown linen arms as he towers before her, and the
dark circles around his eyes appear to shrink with the intensify of his
gaze.

"There are occasions in life," he remarks, "when to acknowledge that our
last meeting with a friend, who has since mysteriously disappeared, was
to reject him and imply a preference for his uncle, may be calculated to
associate us unpleasantly with that disappearance, in the minds of the
censorious, and invite suspicions tending to our early cross-examination
by our Irish local magistrate. I do not say, of course, that you
actually destroyed my nephew for fear he should try to prejudice me
against you; but I cannot withhold my earnest approval of your judicious
pretence of a sentiment palpably incompatible with the shedding of the
blood of its departed object. If you will move your dress a little, so
that I can sit beside you and allow your head to rest upon my shoulder,
that fan will do for both of us, and we may converse in whispers."

"My head upon _your_ shoulder!" exclaims Miss POTTS, staring swiftly
about to see if anybody is looking.
 "I prefer to keep my head upon my
own shoulders, sir."

"Two heads are better than one," the Ritualistic organist reminds her.
"If a little hair-oil and powder _does_ come off upon my coat, the
latter will wash, I suppose. Come, dearest, if it is our fate to never
get through this hot day alive, let us be sunstruck together."

She shrinks timidly from the brown linen arm which he begins insinuating
along the back of the rustic settee, and tells him that she couldn't
have believed that he could be so absurd. He draws back his arm, and
seems hurt.

"FLORA," he says, tenderly, "how beautiful you are, especially when
fixed up. The more I see of yon, the less sorry I am that I have
concluded to be yours. All the time that my dear boy was trying to
induce you to relase him from his engagement, I was thinking how much
better you might do; yet, beyond an occasional encouraging wink, I never
gave the least sign of reciprocating your attachment. I did not think it
would be right"

The assertion, though superficially true, is so imperfect in its
delineation of habitual conduct liable to another construction, that the
agitated Flowerpot returns, with quick indignation, "your arm was always
reaching out whenever you sat in a chair anywhere near me, and whenever
I sang you always kept looking straight into my mouth until it tickled
me. You know you did, you hateful thing! Besides, it wasn't you that I
preferred, at all; it was--oh, it's too ridiculous to tell!"

In her bashful confusion she is about to arise and trip shyly away from
him into the house, when he speaks again.

"Miss POTTS, is your friendship for Miss PENDRAGON and her brother such,
that their execution upon some Friday of next month would be a spectacle
to which you could give no pleased attention?"

"What do you mean, you absurd creature?"

"I mean," continues Mr. BUMSTEAD, "simply this: you know my double loss.
You know that, upon the person of the male PENDRAGON was found an apple
looking and tasting like one which my nephew once had. You know, that
when Mis
s PENDRAGON went from here she wore an alpaca waist which looked
as though it had been exposed more than once to the rain.--See the
point?"

FLORA gives a startled look, and says: "I don't see it."

"Suppose," he goes on--"suppose that I go to a magistrate, and say:
'Judge, I voted for you, and can influence a large foreign vote for you
again. I have lost a nephew who was very fond of apples, and a black
alpaca umbrella of great value. A young Southerner, who has not lived in
this State long enough to vote, has been found in possession of an apple
singularly like the kind generally eaten by my missing relative, and his
sister has come out in a waist made of second-hand alpaca?'--See the
point now?"

"Mr. BUMSTEAD," exclaims FLORA, affrighted by the terrible menace of his
manner, "I don't any more believe that Mr. PENDRAGON is guilty than I,
myself, am; and as for your old umbrella--"

"Stop, woman!" interrupted the bereaved organist, imperiously. "Not even
your lips shall speak disrespectfully of my lost bone-handled friend. By
a chain of unanswerable argument, I have shown you that I hold the fate
of your southern acquaintances in my hands, and shall be particularly
sorry if you force me to hang Mr. PENDRAGON as a rival."

FLORA puts her hands to her temples, to soothe her throbbing head and
display a bracelet.

"Oh, what shall I do! I don't want anybody to be hung! It must be so
perfectly awful!"

Her touching display of generous feeling does not soften him. On the
contrary, he stands more erect, and smiles rather triumphantly under his
straw hat.

"Beloved one," he murmurs, in a rich voice, "I find that I cannot induce
you to make the first advance toward the mutual avowal we are both
longing for, and must therefore precipitate our happiness myself. My
poor boy would not have given you perfect satisfaction, and your
momentary liking for the male PENDRAGON was but the effect of a
temporary despair undoubtedly produced by my seeming coldness. That
coldness had nothing to do with my heart, but resulted partially 
from my
habit of wearing a wet towel on my head. I now propose to you--"

"Propose to me?" ejaculates Miss POTTS, with heightened color.

"--That you pick out a worthy man belonging to your own section of the
Union," he continues hastily. "Here's my Heart," he adds, going through
the motions of taking something from a pocket and placing it in his
outstretched palm, "and here's my Hand,"--placing therein an equally
imaginary object from another pocket.--"Try the H. and H. of J.
BUMSTEAD."

His manner is as though he were commending some patent article of
unquestionable utility.

"But I can't bear the sight of you!" she cries, pushing away the brown
linen arm coming after her again.

Taking away her fan, he pats her on the head with it, and seems
momentarily surprised at the hollow sound.

"Future Mrs. BUMSTEAD," he cheerfully replies, at last, "my observation
and knowledge of the women of America teach me that there never was a
wife going to Indiana for a divorce, who had not at first sworn to love,
as well as honor and obey, her husband. Such is woman that if she had
felt and said at the altar that she couldn't bear the sight of him, it
wouldn't have been in the power of masculine brutality and dissipated
habits to drive her from his side through all their lives. There can be
no better sign of our future happiness, than for you to say, beforehand,
that you utterly detest the man of your choice."

There is something terrible to the young girl in the original turn of
thought of this fascinating man. Say what she may, he at once turns it
into virtual devotion to himself. He appears to have a perfectly
dreadful power to hang everybody; he considers her strongest avowal of
present personal dislike the most promising indication she can give of
eternal future infatuation with him, and his powerful mode of reasoning
is more profound and composing than an article in a New York newspaper
on a War in Europe. Rendered dizzy by his metaphysical conversation, she
arises from the rustic seat, and is flying giddily into the hous
e, when
he leaps athletically after her, and catches her in the doorway.

"I merely wish to request," he says, quietly, "that you place sufficient
restraint upon your naturally happy feelings to keep our engagement a
secret from the public at present, as I can't bear to have boys calling
out after me, 'There's the feller that's goin' to get married! There's
the feller that's goin' to get married!' When a man is about to make a
fool of himself, it is not for children to remind him of it."

The door being opened before she can answer, FLORA receives a parting
bow of Grandisonian elegance from Mr. BUMSTEAD, and hastens up stairs to
her room in a distraction of mind not uncommon to those having
conversational relations with the Ritualistic organist.

_(To be Continued.)_

 * * * * *

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.

 * * * * *

A GOOD FIGHT.

We presume that all the Boston people "lecture" at times; at any rate
they could, if they wanted to. No one doubts their ability.

But, let the number of these imparters of information be ever so great,
we have reason to doubt whether any other of these accomplished parties
has grappled with so formidable, so tremendous a subject, as that which
is now exciting the powerful mind of Miss LILLIAN EDGARTON.

She is going to do it, though! If her life is spared, and her
constitution remains free from blight, (both of which felicities we
trust will be hers,) that subject has got to come under.

That all may know how great is the task, and the confidence required to
pitch into it, we announce, with a flourish, that Miss L. E. is about to
attack that well-known Saurian Monster, termed GOSSIP! Considered as a
Disease, she proposes to find the Cause and the Cure. Considered as a
living and gigantic Nuisance (by far surpassing any Dragon described by
SPENSER,) she designs to hunt him out and slay him incontinently.

Courage
, fair Knight! Our eldest Son is kept in reserve for some such
Heroine! If you would be famous, if you would make a perfect thing of
this Crusade, if you would render the lives of your fellow mortals
longer and happier, if you would win that noble and ingenuous youth, our
son, go in vehemently!

And, while you are about it, LILLIAN, would you object to giving your
attention to certain relations of the monster which you propose to slay?
We name them, Detraction and Calumny. They are tough old Dragons, now,
we tell you; perhaps it were best to fight shy of them.

We have it, LILLIAN! Leave 'em to us! Us, with a big U! You kill little
Gossip, and see how quick his brothers and sisters will fall, before our
mighty battle-axe!

(And so they will fall, sure enough, but it will be simply because when
our dear young knight, L.E., has killed _her_ Dragon, she will have
wiped out the whole brood! They can't live without their sweet and
attractive little sister. And so, like many a bigger humbug, we shall
take great credit, that belongs to somebody else, and assume to have
done big things, at enormous expense of blood and money. Trust us, for
that!)

 * * * * *

NAPOLEON III AT SEDAN.

September, 1870.

 I _was_ an Emperor. _Voila c'est bon!_
 BAZAINE, MACMAHON, fought--'twas my affair.
 Only, to please my doctor, NELATON,
 I left the throne, to take a Sedan chair.

 * * * * *

Unlimited Lie-Ability.

_Veritas_ writes to say that as he was crossing the ferry from Wall
Street to Brooklyn, yesterday afternoon, he counted 117 persons reading
PUNCHINELLO. He did not observe a single copy of the _Sun_ on board,
until the boat neared Brooklyn, when a man of squalid appearance
produced from a dirty newspaper some soiled articles, all of which
seemed to have been steeped in Lye, from contact with the sheet, which
proved to be the _Sun._

 * * * * *

A Con for the "Ninth."

What is there in common between Colonel FISK'S war-horse and a New York
Ice Company?

Both are tremendous Chargers.

 * * * * *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

Here I am 
again, back from the seashore, to find the theatres opening,
the war closing, and GREELEY burning to imitate the late French Emperor,
by leading the Republican hosts to defeat in the Fall campaign, so as to
be in a position to write to the Germanically named HOFFMAN--"As I
cannot fall, ballot in hand, at the head of my repeaters, I surrender to
your victorious Excellency."

Being back, I went to see _Julius Caesar_ at NIBLO'S Garden. It was the
day when the French CAESER fell, and the impertinent soothsayer,
ROCHEFORT, who had so often advised him to beware, not of the Ides of
March, but of the _Idees Napoleoniennes,_ (there is a feeble attempt at
a pun here) obtained his liberty, and the right to assail in his
newspaper, the virtue of every female relative of the Imperial family.
Of course I know that JULIUS CAESAR was not a Frenchman--for the modesty
of his "Commentaries" is proverbial--and that SHAKESPEARE never so much
as heard of the Man of December. Nevertheless the two CAESARS were
inextricably mixed up in my mind. I know that two or three editorial
persons who sat close by me, were continually talking of NAPOLEON, and I
may possibly have confounded their remarks with those of the actors.
Still I could not divest myself of the impression that I was sometimes
in Paris and sometimes in Rome, and that the sepulchral voice of Mr.
THEODORE HAMILTON, was more often that of NAPOLEON than that of JULIUS.
The play presents itself to my recollection in the following shape. As I
said before, it was represented at the very moment that the French
republicans, being satisfied with the bees in their respective bonnets,
were obliterating the imperial bees from the doors of the Tuileries, and
being anxious to take arms against a sea of Prussians, were taking down
the imperial arms wherever they could find them. Remembering this, the
reader will be able to account for any slight difference in text between
my _Julius Caesar,_ and that of the respectable and able Mr. SHAKESPEARE.

ACT I.--_Enter various Irish Roman Citizens, 
flourishing the shillelahs
of the period._

1ST. CITIZEN. "Here's a row. Great CAESAR is going to march to Berlin.
Hooray for the Hemperor."

1ST EDITORIAL PERSON. "I grant you he was popular when the war began,
but to-day the people despise him."

CASSIUS. "I hate this CAESAR. Once he tried to swim across the British
Channel with a tame eagle on his shoulder, and couldn't do it. When he
is sick he takes anti-bilious pills, like any other man. Obviously he
don't deserve to live."

CASCA. (_Who is fat enough to know better, and not pretend to be
discontented_.) "Let's kill him and break all the glass in the windows
of Paris."

BRUTUS. "My friend, those who live in stone houses should never throw
glass about. I don't mean anything by this, but it sounds oracular, and
will make people think I am a profound philosopher."

EDITORIAL PERSON. "What I say is this. He, CAESAR, governed the Roman
rabble vastly better than they deserved. His only mistakes were, in not
sending CASSIUS, who was a sort of ROCHEFORT, without ROCHEFORT'S
cowardice, to the galleys, and in not sending BRUTUS as Minister to some
capital so dreary that he would have shot himself as soon as he reached
his destination."

ACT II.--_Enter_ BRUTUS _and fellow radicals._

BRUTUS. "I have no complaint against CAESAR, and I therefore gladly join
your noble band of assassins. We will kill him and establish a
provisional government with myself at its head. CAESAR is ambitious, and
I hate ambition. All I want is to be the ruler of Rome."

CASSIUS. "Come, my brave fellows. Haste to the stabbing. Away! Away!"

EDITORIAL PERSON. "What a farce is history. Here are PUMBLECHOOK, BRUTUS
and JOHN WILKES CASSIUS held up as models of excellence and integrity.
What did they and their fellow scoundrels do after they had killed
CAESAR, but desolate their country with civil war?"

ACT III.--_Enter_ ASSASSINS _headed by_ BRUTUS _and_ GAMBETTA, CASSIUS
_and_ ROCHEFORT.

CASSIUS. "Here is CAESAR with his back toward us, fighting the German's
hordes. Let us steal up and stab hi
m before he can help himself." _(They
stab him.)_

CASSIUS. "Now we will kick his wife out of Paris and smash his
furniture. We will all become a Provisional Government, and fix
everything to suit ourselves. I will revive my newspaper, and hire a
staff from the New York _Sun,_ who will make it more scurrilous than
ever."

_Enter the Parisian populace crying, "Hooray for_ CAESAR."

CASSIUS. "Hush. CAESAR is dead, and we are going to proclaim a republic.
Begin and abuse him with all your might. We'll let you smash some
windows presently."

POPULACE. "Hooray. The tyrant has fallen. Let's go and insult his wife
and smash everything generally."

1ST EDITORIAL PERSON. "Yesterday these precious rascals voted for him.
To-day they insult him--it being safe to do so--and to-morrow they will
want him back again."

2ND EDITORIAL PERSON, "There lies the ruins of the noblest nephew of his
uncle that ever lived in France or elsewhere. He was unscrupulous, I
admit, but he knew how to rule. Shall we stay and hear MARK ANTONY
praise him, and set the fickle rabble at the throats of ROCHEFORT and
BRUTUS, and their gang?"

1ST EDITORIAL PERSON. "That will take place very shortly, but I can't
wait for it. I must go home to write an editorial welcoming the new
republic, and prophesying all manner of success for it. The American
people like that sort of trash, though they have already twice seen the
French try republican institutions only to make a muddle of them."

2ND EDITORIAL PERSON. "What do you think of the actors here at NIBLO'S."

1ST EDITORIAL PERSON. "DAVENPORT is good but heavy, BARRETT rants like a
raving French radical. MONTGOMERY is excellent, and the rest are so so."

And the undersigned having seen the French revolution played on the
Roman stage at NIBLO'S, also went home without waiting to see the
prophetic fourth and fifth acts, in which the conspirators come to
grief, and the empire is reestablished. We shall read all about it in
the cable dispatches a few months hence. Good Heavens! who can listen
calmly to the speec
hes of the players, while the grandest drama of the
century is acting across the sea, where a mad populace, freed from the
firm grasp of its master, breaks windows and howls itself hoarse as the
best preparations for holding the fairest of cities against the
resistless veterans of VON MOLTKE.

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

Insurrectionary.

PUNCHINELLO, pondering over the vast sums that have been forwarded to
Cuba, in aid of the insurrectionary movements there, and struck with the
disadvantages under which the promoters of liberty labor in that sunny
isle, blesses his stars that, thanks to the enterprise of Miss SUSAN B.
ANTHONY, he can raise a Revolution in New York City, at any time,
for ten cents. Let those whom it may concern take heed.

 * * * * *

Bluff King Bill.

L.N. declared his determination to kick old King BILLY, of Prussia, off
from French territory. Well, it would only have been a new illustration
of "footing the Bill."

 * * * * *

Query.

As soon as the abominable fat-boiling nuisances have been abolished,
will it be right to say that they have fallen into de-_suet_-ude?

 * * * * *

A Seasonable Conundrum.

Why is New York City like the ex-Emperor of the French?
Because it has just got rid of its Census.

 * * * * *

A Suggestion.

In consideration of the splendid jewels worn by him, might not Colonel
JIM FISK be more appropriately called Colonel GEM FISK.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE SPIRIT OF THE WAR.

A Sketch In the Bowery.

_Small Frenchman._ "WHAT FOR YOU HIT ME WITH YOUR DAMBABY VEN YOU PASS?"

_Big German._ "WANTS TO FIGHT?--DINKS YOU CAN WHIP ME, EH?"

_Small Frenchman._ "NO--BUT I CAN GIVE YOUR DAMBABY ONE BLACK EYE!"]

 * * * * *

BY GEORGE!

LAKE GEORGE, August 30.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO:--I arrived here last Saturday, and as I would be the
last person to allow a commendable enterprise to languish for want of
proper encouragement, and in order to put the Hotel proprietors out of
suspense, I thought I would let you know without further delay that I
consider Lake George a success.

Not being exp
ected, as I supposed, I must admit I was somewhat gratified
to find a full band playing on the veranda as the coach I was in drove
up.

It was a sort of delicate attention, you know.

I notice, however, that they continue playing in the afternoon since
then, I suppose it struck them as a good idea at the time.

The Fort William Henry Hotel is a gorgeous affair in every respect. It
is situated very near the old original Fort, just where the French
troops advanced to capture it, and made their celebrated charges.

Perhaps the present proprietor can't discount them at that sort of
thing.

Perhaps not!

Looking over one's bills reminds you a good deal of the Police Courts,
five dollars fine, twenty-five dollars costs.

The costs they make here are very good, however, altho' they do put a
little too much mint in them, I must say.

L.G. is all right, though. It is supplied with all the modern
conveniences. It isn't within five minutes walk of the post office, but
its water conveniences are apparent to all. There is no end to its
belles, and as for its ranges, it has two of them--both Adirondacks.

Yesterday I took a trip up the Lake and across to its neighbor,
Champlain.

Everybody takes this trip because its "the thing," and it is therefore
particularly necessary to take it. Ostensibly, you go to view the
scenery, really, to be inveigled into paying for a low comedy of a
dinner at the other end.

The first place our boat stopped at is called the "Trout Pavillion,"
principally, so far as I can learn, on account of the immense number of
pickerel caught there, and from the fact that it is unquestionably a
good site for a Pavillion whenever the esteemed Proprietor turns up
jacks enough, at his favorite game, to build one.

The next place was set down in the Guide Book as the "Three Sisters"
Islands, an appellation arising from the fact that there are precisely
_four_ of them.

I mentioned this apparent discrepancy to the boat clerk.

This young man, who belongs to a Base Ball Club, informs me that these
islands invariably
 travelled with a "substitute," as one occasionally
got "soaked."

This certainly seems a little curious, but as the young man says he was
born here, I suppose he knows.

This same young man pointed out a beautiful spot called Green Island and
asked me if I wouldn't like to live there.

He said he thought it would just suit me.

The attention of these people is really delightful.

Some of these places, however, have very inappropriate names, for
instance another little gem is called "Hog Island." No one knows why it
was so called. The clerk of the boat don't either.

He wanted to know if I had ever dined there.

I always make it a point to get on the right side of these Steamboat
fellows, always.

About half way up the Lake is a place called Tongue Mountain.

A long time ago a colony of strong-minded women settled there.

That may have had something to do with its name.

Nobody ever goes there now.

People go very near the mountain in boats, however, as it is noted for
something very extraordinary in the Echo line.

It has what is called a "Double Echo."

I fully expected something of this kind.

Now if there is anything I am particularly down on, it is those
unmitigated frauds known as Echoes. And if I ever throw four sixes, it
is when I am tackling some unsuspecting old ass of a watering place
echo.

I consider them "_holler_ mockeries."

Of course we steamed within proper distance, and I seized the
opportunity to "put a head on" this venerable two-ply nuisance, as
follows:

First, I read a page of a Patent Office Report I go armed with.

This the Echo, with very little hesitation, repeated in duplicate as
usual. From one side of the rock in English, and from the other in fair
French.

I saw at once that old EK was pretty well filled.

Next I sang "Listen to the Mocking Bird," which it repeated very
creditably indeed, dropping but two notes on the third verse. This it
made up for, I am bound to admit, by throwing in some original
variations in the chorus.

But I hadn't played from my sleeve yet, so I recited HA
MLET'S Soliloquy.

From the wooded <DW72> on our right came the familiar "_To be_" of BOOTH,
while from the sloping woods on our left proceeded a finely rendered
imitation of the Teutonic FECHTER, in the same.

This staggered me!

I had one more jack in my cuff, however. I pulled out a copy of the
Tribune and read a few paragraphs of GREELEY'S "What do I know about
Farming."

_That settled him!_

He never got to the first semi-colon. It knocked the breath right out of
him!

The poor old fossil had to quit. He changed his repeater to a leaver.
But then you see he had held the office a good while.

He hasn't left the business to any one, either.

In future no one will go fooling round there except the fishermen. The
sign is down.

In my next I will finish the Lake trip, and give you some account of the
celebrated "Roger's Slide."

SAGINAW DODD.

[_To be continued._]

 * * * * *

RAMBLINGS.

BY MOSE SKINNER.

POPULARITY.

Next to talk, popularity is the cheapest thing I know of. It is achieved
by three classes--those who have brains, those who have money, and those
who have neither. The first earn it; the second buy it; and the third
stumble into it, perhaps by waving their hat at an engineer just in time
to prevent the train from dashing over a precipice, or by chopping off
somebody's head with a meat axe and burning the remains up afterwards,
in which case the next day's paper gives a faithful account of their
pedigree, and their photograph can be purchased at any respectable
news-dealers, at a price within reach of all.

The most common-place sayings of popular men are handed down to
posterity, and a casual remark about the weather is often framed and
hung up in the spare-bedroom.

It behooves every public man to keep a sentence or two on hand, with a
view to embalming them for future reference. I wish to state, in
confidence, that if any prominent man who can't think of anything that
sounds well, will address me, I will furnish him at the low price of one
dollar a sentence. My stock is entirely fresh and origina
l, and embraces
such gems as--"Don't give up the ship," "Such is Life," "How's this for
high?" "I die happy," "A stitch in time saves nine," &c., &c.

I am also prepared to furnish "last words of eminent men," at a moderate
compensation.

General GRANT has taken time by the forelock in this matter. His "Let us
have Peace," was a most brilliant effort, because nobody ever thought of
it before. "I propose to move on your works immediately, if it takes all
summer," was also a happy thought.

When General GRANT was in Boston he said he liked the way they made
gravy in Massachusetts. Now this in itself would not, perhaps, be called
deep, because others have said the same thing before, but, coming from a
man like GRANT, it set folks to thinking, and it is not surprising that
something of this sort went the rounds:

 "We have the best authority for stating that General GRANT,
 during his recent visit to Boston, remarked that he was
 gratified at the manner in which gravy was produced in
 Massachusetts. Our talented Chief Magistrate is a man of few
 words, but what he does say is spicy, and to the point."

At the Peace Jubilee, GRANT said he "liked the cannon best;" but the
reporters, being confidentially informed that the remark wasn't intended
for posterity, it didn't get out much. I didn't hear of his saying
anything else.

If a popular man takes cold, the whole public sneeze. His opinions must
go into the papers any how, though perhaps no better than anybody's
else. Thus--from a daily paper:

 "The Hon. MONTGOMERY BLAIR recently said in a private
 conversation, that the present war would probably end in
 victory for the Prussians, and the overthrow of Napoleon."

Supposing he did? I heard JOHN SMITH say the same thing in an eating
saloon over a month ago, and out of twenty gentlemen present, four were
reporters, but they didn't take out their note books in breathless haste
and put down the Hon. JOHN SMITH'S opinion, how Mr. SMITH looked when he
said it, and if he said it as though he really meant it, and in a manner

that thrilled his listeners.

But JOHN hasn't any popularity, you see, and the Hon. MONTGOMERY
has--though it may be a little mildewed.

Soon after the war, I wrote an article on the Alabama Claims. It was a
masterly effort, and cost me a month's salary to get it inserted in a
popular magazine. If that article had proved a success, I could easily
have gulled the public all my life on the popularity thus achieved.

But I made a wretched mistake to start with. Instead of heading it "The
Alabama Claims," "By CHARLES SUMNER," or "HORACE GREELEY." I said "By
MOSE SKINNER."

I will not dwell on the result. Suffice it to say that I soon after
retired from literature, a changed being, utterly devoid of hope.

MORAL SUASION.

A friend of mine, an eminent New York philanthropist, relates the
following interview with a condemned criminal. The crime for which this
wretched man was hung is still fresh in our memories. One morning at
breakfast his tripe didn't suit him, and he immediately brained his wife
and children and set the house on fire, varying the monotony of the
scene by pitching his mother-in-law down the well, having previously,
with great consideration, touched her heart with a cheese knife.

I will now quote my friends' own words:

"He was pronounced a hard case, manifesting no sorrow for his act, and
utterly indifferent to his approaching doom. A score of good people had
visited him with the kindest intentions, but without making the smallest
impression upon him.

"Without boasting, I wish to say that I knew I could touch this man's
heart. I saw a play once in which the most blood-thirsty and brutal
ruffian that ever existed was melted to tears at the mention of his
mother's name, and childhood's happy hours, and everybody knows that
what happens on the stage happens just the same in real life.

"I naturally congratulated myself on having seen this play, for it gave
me power to cope with this relentless disposition.

"He resisted all attempts at conversation, however, in the most dogged
manner, barely returning 
surly monosyllables to my anxious wishes for
his well being.

"At last, laying my hand on his shoulder, and throwing considerable
pathos into my voice, I said:

"My friend, it was not always thus with you. There was a time when you
sat upon your mother's knee, and gathered buttercups and daisies?"

"Ah! I had touched the right chord at last. His brow contracted and his
lips twitched convulsively."

"And when that mother put you in your little bed," I continued, "she
kissed you, and hoped you would grow up a--"

"You lie," said he, "she didn't. The old woman was six foot under ground
afore I could chaw. Now, look a here, you're the fourth chap that's
tried the 'mother' dodge on me. Why don't you fellers" he added with a
malicious grin, "go back on the mother business, and give the old man a
chance, jest for a change?"

"After the above scurvy treatment I was naturally anxious to witness the
man's funeral, which I understood was to be a gorgeous affair, six
respectably-attired females having been sworn in to kiss the body, amid
the hysteric weeps of three more in the background."

 * * * * *

[Illustration: PRACTICAL.

_Housewife._ "VAKE YOU UP, HANS--HERE'S ANODER BRUSSIAN VICTORY."

_Hans, (dreamily.)_ "ANODER BRUSSIAN VICTORY?--DEN LET US HAVE ANODER
BRUSSIAN BIER."]

 * * * * *

Hot and Cold.

The sensational paragraph writers had better "let up" on the question of
an imminent dearth of ice. There is no real probability that we shall be
without ice before winter sets in. It is only for the purpose of keeping
us in hot water that the newspaper men say we shan't have cold water.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: NOT JUST YET!

_Mr. Greeley._ "PRAY, TAKE A SEAT, MR. WOODFORD; I WOULDN'T ON ANY
ACCOUNT DEPRIVE YOU," etc., etc.

_Mr. Woodford._ "No! NO!--TAKE IT YOURSELF, MR. GREELEY; THE LAST THING
I SHOULD THINK OF WOULD BE," etc., etc.

_Governor Hoffman._ "DON'T TROUBLE YOURSELVES, GENTLEMEN: I SHALL
PROBABLY CONTINUE TO OCCUPY THE CHAIR FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS, YET."]

 * * * * *

COMIC ZOOLOGY.

Genus, Phoca.--The Sea
l.

This is the common name of the inoffensive and fur-bearing members of
the Phocidae family. The word seal is derived, radically, from the
German _Siegel,_ so that to say a man has "fought mit SIEGEL," is
equivalent to remarking that he has assailed a harmless and timid seal.

The Phocidae, without distinction of sex, are known as Mammafers,
although it would manifestly be more correct to call the males Papafers.
Under the present classification, the confusion of genders necessarily
engenders confusion.

Unless AGASSIZ is gassing us, the true seal has no sign of an ear,
wherefore the deafening roar of the surf in which it delights to sport
is probably no inconvenience to it. As distinguished from dumb beasts in
general, it may properly be called a deaf and dumb animal. The false
seal, on the contrary, has as true an ear as e'er was seen. To the
counterfeits belong the sea lion, the Mane specimen of the tribe in the
Arctic sea, and the sea leopard, which seems to be phocalized in the
Antarctic circle. All the varieties of the seal seek concealment in
caverns, and their Hides are much sought after.

Sealing was at one time chiefly monopolized by adventurous New
Englanders, who combined the pursuit with whaling, but at present the
sealers of Salt Lake bear off the palm from all competitors, both as
regards numbers and hardihood. Whether they combine whaling with sealing
is not positively known, but probably they do. Such is the universal
passion for sealing among the people of that region, that the old men
act like Young men when engaged in this exciting occupation.

The Phocidae appear to have attracted the attention of Mankind at a very
early period--Seals being frequently spoken of in the Scriptures. St.
JOHN witnessed the opening of no less than seven varieties, and must
have been well acquainted with their internal structure.

The earless, or true species, are often seen in considerable numbers on
the British coast, and the Great Seal of England--only to be found in
the vicinity of the Thames--is of such rema
rkable size and weight, that
it never makes its appearance without producing a strong Impression.

The Green Seal, a much admired variety, is peculiar to Madeira, and
seals of various colors are often seen in close proximity to the
British. Ports; the number taken off Cork being prodigious.

None of the animals of the Phoca genus are tenacious of life. They may
readily be destroyed with sealing whacks. A large stick properly applied
has been known to seal the fate of a dozen in the space of half an hour.
KANE knocked them over without difficulty, and they never attempt to
defend themselves, according to PANEY.

In conclusion, it may be remarked that immense herds of seals cover the
coasts of Alaska. It is nevertheless difficult to catch a glimpse of
them, on account of the enormous flocks of humming birds, which darken
the air in that genial clime. Occasionally, however, the Arctic zephyrs
disperse the feathery cloud, and then vast numbers of the timid
creatures, with a sprinkling of the Walrus, may be seen by looking in a
Se(a)ward direction.

 * * * * *

A LITTLE ACKNOWLEDGMENT.

The _Free (and Easy) Press_ has honored PUNCHINELLO with a brief as well
as premature obituary paragraph. Flattered as he is by being thus
noticed in the columns of a journal of the long standing and well
sustained popularity of the _Free (and Easy) Press_, it pains
PUNCHINELLO to be obliged to state that he still lives, and that he is
not only alive, but kicking. That he has come to an end, is true--but it
is to the end of his First Volume, as the _F. (and E.) Press_ can see by
turning to the admirably written, dashing, humorous, and absolutely
unsurpassable Index appended to our present number, which Index
PUNCHINELLO cordially recommends to the perusal of the _F. (and E.)
Press_. The Preface to his Second Volume, however, which is now in
preparation, will, PUNCHINELLO confidently assures the _F. (and E.)
Press_, be altogether superior to the Index to his First. Let the _F.
(and E.) Press_ look out for it. But, meanwhile, the _F. (an
d E.) Press_
can cheer itself by frequent contemplation of the entertaining personage
who serves as tail-piece to the Index, and whose gesture is of that
familiar and suggestive kind that will doubtless be thoroughly
understood by the _F. (and E.) Press_, and, as PUNCHINELLO hopes, fully
appreciated.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: "HUMPTY DUMPTY SAT ON THE WALL, HUMPTY DUMPTY HAD A GREAT
FALL."

AND IT HE HAD FALLEN AMONG THE PRUSSIANS, ONLY, IT MIGHTN'T HAVE BEEN SO
BAD FOR HIM; BUT, AS HE ALSO FELL UPON FRENCH BAYONETS, IT IS QUITE
CERTAIN THAT HE CAN NEVER GET UP AGAIN.]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN IN WALL STREET.

His Celebrated Speech before the Board or Brokers.--A few Words of Sound
Advice from the Squire.

Doorin' a breef sojern in the Emperor City, a deputation of Wall Street
brokers and smashers called and invited me to make a speech afore the
members of their church, whose _Sin_-agog is situated in Brod Street.

Thinks I, if I can make these infatuated worshippers of the Golden Calf,
Mammon, see the error of their ways and take a back track, me thunk my
chances for the White House would be full as flatterin' as Sisters
WOODHUL, GEORGIANA FRANCIS TRAIN, or any other woman, in '72.

Layin' off my duster, and adjustin' my specturcals, at the appinted
hour, I slung the follerin' extemperaneous remarks at 'em:

My infatuated friends and Goverment Bondmen:

As an ex-statesman which has served his country for 4 years as Gustise
of the Peece, raisin' said offis to a hire standard than usual, to say
nothin' about raisin' an interestin' family of eleven morril an hily
intellectooal children, I rise and git up, ontramelled by any politikle
alliances, to say: that when you fellers git on a mussy fit, like the
old woman who undertook to pick her chickens by runnin' them through a
patent hash cutter, you make the feathers fly, and leave your victims in
a hily clawed up stait.

Perfesser ARKIMIDEES, of Oxford, (and here allow me to stait, so as to
avoid newspaper contraryversy, as in the case of DISRALLY'S novel
Lothere, _
I have no refference to_ T. GOLDWIN SMITH _whatsomever_, as I
believe ARKIMIDEES is now dead,) said he could raise the hul earth with
a top section of a rale fence, if he could only find something tangible
to rest his timber on.

My friends, that man had never heerd of Wall Street, and I'de bet all
the money I can borrer on it.

With such a prop as this ere little territory, where games of chance are
"entered into accordin' to the act of Congress," to cote from a familiar
passage in every printed copy of PUNCHINELLO, the Perfesser could have
raised this little hemisfeer quicker than any of you chaps can gobble up
a greenhorn.

And, sirs, I'me sorry to be obliged to speak plain, it would be a darned
site more to your credit if you'd try and raise the earth, instead of
daily usin' Wall Street as a base of operations to raise H----,
well--excuse me, the futer asilum for retired brokers.

How do you manage, when you want to make a steak?

You run up stocks and produce a crysis.

Outsiders rush in lickety smash, and invest all the money they can rake
and scrape, in these inflated stocks. Suddenly you prick the bubble,
when, alas! besides the cry-sis, there's more cry-bubs in and about Wall
Street than there was in Egipt, when NAPOLEON BONAPART chopped off the
heads off all the first born. Instances have been known, where a good
many of you chaps have rammed your head in the Tiger's mouth once too
often.

If my memry serves me correctly, FISKE and GOOLD made you perambulate
off on your eyebrows, last fall, and while the a-4-said Tigers walked
off with the seats of your trowserloons in their teeth, you all jined in
the follerin' him:

 Wall Street is all a fleetin' sho',
 From which lame ducks are driven,
 "Up in a balloon they allers go,
 To Tophet, not to Heaven."

Another little dodge of your'n, my misguided friends, is to keel off K.
VANDERBILT.

What did you do t'other day?

Why, when KERNELIUS was engaged in a friendly game of cards for _keeps_,
up at Saratogy, some poor deluded _money_-maniac telegrafs that the
C
ommodore had at last found his match, and had been gathered to his
fathers. While at the bottom of the dispatch was forged the name of my
friend, KISSLEBURGH, city editor of the _Troy Times_, who, up to the
present time, if this coot knows herself, hain't bin into the hiway
robbin' bizziness, not by a long shot. But, my friends and feller
citizens, old VAN is sharper that a two-edged gimlet.

When he lays down his wallet among a lot of other calf skins, like a
great sponge in a puddle of water, it sucks every square inch of legal
tender, which is in suckin' distance.

For a regler 40 hoss power suction, K. VANDERBILT is your man. I ones
thought I could never take a locker to this 'ere honest old heart, but
as I cast my gaze over this audience, and observe among the Bulls and
Bears, a cuple of Dears, I will retract that, payin' in the follerin'
_Jew de spree_:

 Come rest on this buzzum,
 Oh! butiful broker,
 With your arms clinchin' tite,
 This innercent choker.

 I'le stand it from thee,
 If you'll never go near,
 The Bulls and the Bears,
 When HIRAM is here.

(This impromtu poetikism, Mr. PUNCHINELLO, kicked up quite a little
breeze, in the midst of which the pretty brokers blushed and looked so
bewitchin' like, that it was enuff to make a feller throw stuns at K.
VANDERBILT if the pretty Dears only wanted him to.)

I agin resoomed:

My infatuated friends; afore I wind up, let me give you a few partin'
words of advice.

Give up this 'ere gamblin' bizziness. When you run up gold it hits the
hul mercantile body of this nation a wipe in the stummuck. A good many
little cubs, as well as a few ole Bears, have been gobbled up by your
confounded efforts at runnin' up gold, while you grin and chuckle like
the laffin' hyena, when ransackin' Navy Yards and whisky distilleries.
But, if you insist on goin' ahead and earnin' your daily peck by
smashin' things and layin' out the onsofisticated, all I have got to say
is, that next time you've got a _sure thing_ to make a speck, by
telegrafin' me at Skeensboro, I won't mind co
min' down and takin' a hand
in, if my pocketin' a few hundred thousands will be the means of
betterin' your morrils, by my sharin' your burden. In concloosion,
feller citizens, feelin' in rather a poetical mood to-day, I will close
with the follerin' tribute to Wall Street and its inhabitants:

 "Imperious SEIZER, dead, and turned to cla,
 Mite stop a hole to keep the wind away;"
 Onless from Wall Street, was blowin' raw.
 The tempestous breezes, from a broker's flaw.

Amid tumultous cheers, and a general rushin' to DELMONICO'S, where Wall
Street waters her stock, (of lickers,) I sot down.

Ewers, without a dowt,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._

 * * * * *

Stage By-play.

A sporting paper gives the following item:

"Two nines, composed of members of BOOTH'S, WALLACK'S and the Olympic
theatrical companies, played an interesting game of base-ball at the
Union base-ball grounds, last week."

Imagine Sir HARCOURT COURTLEY batting splendidly to DIEDRICK VAN
BEEKMAN'S pitching; or picture Major DE BOOTS waiting patiently on the
short stop for a chance to put Captain ABSOLUTE out on his second base.
The experience of these gentlemen before the footlights may have made
them light-footed, but from mere force of habit they are all pretty sure
to be caught out in the "flies."

 * * * * *

Professional.

"They may talk about nines," said the Doctor, when base-ball was the
subject under discussion. "They may talk about their nines; but I know
of a nine that would lay them all out in double-quick time, and it is
called Strychnine."

 * * * * *

A FECULENT NUISANCE.

Persons passing along Nassau Street, between Ann and Beekman Streets,
for some days past, have had their olfactories unpleasantly assailed by
a vile stench. On investigation by officers of the Board of Health, the
foul odor was found to exhale from the premises of 113 Nassau Street.
Further examination disclosed the fact that the nuisance arose from a
quantity of Dead Rabbits deposited on the premises by one JAMES O'BRIEN,
for purposes best known
 to himself. It is said that the entire concern
is to be handed over to the New York Rendering Company, for conversion
into the kind of tallow used for the manufacture of the cheapest kind of
rush-lights.

 * * * * *

The Greatest Joke of the Season.

The idea of nominating JAMES O'BRIEN for the office of Mayor of the City
of New York. But it cannot be called a practical joke.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: "IT WAS IN THE CHAMPAGNE COUNTRY THAT LOUIS NAPOLEON CAME
TO GRIEF. THE FIZZ OF THE CHAMPAGNE WAS TOO MUCH FOR HIM, AND HE
FIZZLED."--_(Letter from a War Correspondent.)_]

 * * * * *

PUNCHINELLO AS A "SAVANT."

MR. PUNCHINELLO: I have always taken a profound interest in Science.
When a child my fond parents observed in me a decided taste for
Entomology, the wings and legs of butterflies and grasshoppers being the
objects of my special investigation. As a school-boy I obtained (despite
the frequent closing of my visual organs) considerable Insight into
Physical Science in the course of numerous pugilistic encounters. A
close Application to Optics at that time enabled me to get some Light on
the Subject.

I was quite a phenomenon in Astronomy. While yet an unweaned infant I
made numerous observations on the Milky Way, and when learning to walk
frequently saw stars undiscernable with the most powerful telescope.
Since my arrival at man's estate I have frequently experimented on the
Elasticity of the Precious Metals, but have generally found it extremely
difficult to make both ends meet.

Considering, therefore, that I had as just a claim to be called
scientific, as many who pretend to be _Savants_, I determined to attend
the late Scientific Convention at Troy. My reception was most
gratifying. On presenting my credentials to the Convention, that learned
body welcomed me with open arms, and I was escorted to a place among the
members by its distinguished head.

Some of the speculations of these eminent philosophers were exceedingly
profound, and it is really wonderful, Mr. PUNCHINELLO, to what an extent
theory may 
be carried in the advance of science.

Mr. GOOSEFELT read a learned and original paper--carefully compiled from
various sources--on the Steam Engine, in the course of which he stated
that his great aunt, who had been blown up on the first steamboat that
ever went down in the Mississippi, during the great Earthquake of 1811,
was still living. Also, that his godfather, the celebrated Mr.
NICODEMUS, assisted (probably in the interests of science) in pulling
down the statue of GEORGE III in the Bowling Green. The importance of
these two facts cannot be over-estimated, as they will undoubtedly give
a tremendous impulse to the wheels of science.

Professor GREYWACKE, the eminent Geologist, delivered an address on
Natural Petrifactions, indicating the various specimens of Ancient
Fossils by which he was surrounded, and describing their formation. The
audience was probably Petrified with astonishment at the immense
learning and research he displayed, for it observed a Stony silence,
only interrupted by an occasional snore.

A brilliant paper on the Illuminating Power of Gas was read by Professor
M.T. HEAD. It was a most Luminous production, and proved conclusively
that an immense expenditure of gas sometimes throws very little Light on
any Subject. The Professor is thoroughly versed in Meters, and is the
author of the "Volume of Gas" which has attracted so much attention in
the scientific world.

Professor SUETT addressed the Scientists on the Effect of Tallow upon
Ox(h)ides. From certain experiments made by him it appears that the
Oleaginous principle is incompatible with Water, and unfavorable to the
action of rust.

A member was of the opinion that this important discovery might be
turned to great practical advantage, as the application of cart grease
to rusty iron axles might possibly facilitate the rotary motion of the
wheels.

This novel and valuable suggestion was hailed with shouts of applause,
and the thanks of the Convention were immediately voted to the
distinguished member, whose name I have unfortunately for
gotten.

Professor HYDRAGE read an Essay on the Transit of Mercury, which he said
would take place in the form of a Bed Precipitate in 1878. It may
possibly take place before then, however, as the Faculty of Medicine are
said to be rapidly abandoning the use of calomel.

The State Conchologist read an extremely interesting disquisition on the
Oyster, which was divided into sections and literally devoured by the
audience. He also exhibited some Specimens of Conchs, which were regular
Sneezers in point of size.

An announcement which was made by the distinguished Astronomer,
Professor LOONEY, created a most profound sensation.

He stated that with the aid of a powerful telescope he had discovered an
immense Fissure in the Moon. He was quite positive that he had also
observed a Man in the Gap. Although unable to distinguish the features
of this individual, he thought it might possibly be JAMES STEPHENS, the
missing Fenian Head Centre.

When the excitement consequent upon this startling announcement had
subsided, I rose and addressed the Convention as follows:

"Ladies and Gentlemen: I cannot express, in words, the profound
gratification with which I have listened to the learned and eloquent
addresses which have just been delivered. The advancement of Science is
an object which is worthy the efforts of such distinguished _savants_ as
I see around me, and to this object they have brought that profundity of
learning which is only to be gathered from the perusal of elementary
text books, that almost strabismal acuteness of perception which enables
them to descry such great scientific truths as can be discovered through
an orifice in a barn door, and that wonderful power of discrimination
which enables them to distinguish between the seed of the leguminous
plant known as the bean, and the other vegetable productions of Nature,
when the bag is open.

As an humble member of the Brotherhood of Science, I desire to
contribute, in however insignificant a degree, to the Great Cause of
Learning. I will therefore, with Your Perm
ission, read" (loud cries of
'No! No!' 'Put him out!' etc., to which of course I paid no attention,)
"the following papers: 'An Inquiry as to Whether Diptheria has anything
to do with the Migration of the Swallow,' 'On the possibility of
straightening the curve of the African Shin Bone.' 'On Marine Plants and
Deep Sea Currents.' 'On the Laws of Mechanics, with observations on the
Mechanic's Lien Law and the By-Laws of Trades Unions.' 'Some Reflections
on Reflection.' 'The Connection between Mathematics and Versification,
as illustrated by LOGARHYTHMS.' 'Minute Experiments with the
Hour-Glass,' and 'Important Speculations on the Sea Changes.'"

I proceeded to read the first of the above named papers, but before I
had got very far, Mr. PUNCHINELLO, I was interrupted by a peculiar
sound, which I at first took for subdued applause, but which, on
investigation, I found proceeded from the noses of the audience. In
short, Mr. P., both audience and Convention were in a profound slumber.
Considerably mortified, I withdrew in silence. I am determined, however,
that my theses shall not be lost to posterity. I intend to have them
published, and to send you a copy of each.

Profoundly yours,

CHINCAPIN.

 * * * * *

Pearing Time.

We learn that "some of the pear trees in Suffolk County are now in
blossom." Surely such a season as this one for pears has never before
been seen. Who knows but the fact may induce SUSAN B. ANTHONY to go
pairing with some Revolutionary bachelor?

 * * * * *

INDEX

 A.

 About a Clock
 Advice to Picnic Parties
 Aerated Verbiage
 Agricultural Column, Our
 Albany Cock Robins
 Allurements of the Period
 All Aboard for Holland
 All Hail
 American Cutlery in France
 Answers to Correspondents
 Arrah, What Does He Mane, at All?
 Astronomical Conversations
 Associated Press Telegrams
 Augean Job, An

 B.

 Ballad of Capt. Eyre, The
 Bachelor's Moving Day, The
 Bad "Odor" in the West
 Ballad of the Good Litttle Boy aged ten
 "Behold how Pleasant a Thing," &c.
 Beautiful Snow
 Bit of Natural History, A
 Bird
 of Wisdom in Iowa, The
 Bingham on Rome
 Blocks and Blockheads
 Book Notices
 Boyhood
 Bow-Wow!
 Broadbrim to Aborigine
 Business
 By George

 C.

 Cause and Effect
 Captain Hall, To
 Cable News
 Caution
 Cats, On
 Card of Thanks, A
 Chat about Railroads, A
 Chance for our Organ Grinders, A
 Charge of the Ninth Brigade
 Chinopathy
 China Pattern, A
 Chincapin at Long Branch
 Chincapin among the Free Lovers
 Church Militant
 Cincinnatus Sweeny
 Condensed Congress
 Colonel Fisk's Soliloquy
 Cons, by a Wrecker
 Comic Zoology
 Congressman to his Critics, A
 Consistent League, A
 Coup d'etat, My
 Correspondence Bureau
 Contemporary Sentiments
 Conversion of the "_Sun_"
 Cool, if not Comfortable
 Troopa Fought Nobly, The
 Criticism of the Period
 Critical Intelligence
 Crispin _vs_. Coolie
 Current Tables
 CARTOONS--March 4, 1869--March 4, 1870
 Our Efficient Navy Department
 The Descent of the great Massachusetts Frog upon the Newspaper Flies
 The Great National Game
 Financial Belief
 The Sick Eagle
 The Financial Inquisition
 Editorial Washing Day in New York
 The New Plea for Murder
 International Yachting
 The Wedding Ring as Sorosis would like to see it
 The Blood Money
 "What I Know About Farming"
 The Wedding Ring again
 Modern Matrimony
 Yan-ki _vs_. Yankee
 The New Pandora's Box
 Lncifer's Little Game with his Royal Puppets
 Death of the "Entente Cordial"
 Wonderful Tour de Force
 The Ovation of Murder
 Law _versus_ Lawlessness
 What Will He Do With It?
 At the Saratoga Convention
 Humpty Dumpty

 D.

 Depressions for Chicago
 Delights of Dougherty, The
 Desultory Hints and Maxims for Anglers
 Distinguished Visitor, A
 Dorgs, On
 Dogs Tale, A
 Down the Bay
 Drainage under Difficulties
 Dreadful State of Things out West, The
 Dubious English
 Dwarf Dejected, The

 E.

 Earthly Paradise
 Editorial Washing Day
 Elevated Statesmanship
 England's Quandry
 Episode of Jack Horner
 Excellent Old Song Made New, An
 Excelsior

 F.

 Fable
 Ferocity of Failure, The
 Female Gentleman, The
 Fifteenth Amendment
 Finances,
 On the
 Fish Sauce
 Fine Arts in Philadelphia
 Fiscalities
 Fish Culture
 Fishery Question, The
 Financial
 Financial Article, Our
 Four Seasons, The
 Forty-four to Fourteen
 Foreign Correspondence
 Foam
 Free Baths, The
 From an Anxious Mother to her Daughter
 Fun and Fin

 G.

 Gay Young Joker, A
 George Francis the Ubiquitous
 Glimpses of Fortune
 Gossip in a School-house
 Good for Something Better
 Gravestones For Sale
 Grant's Blackbird pie
 Greeley's Aid to Literary Effort
 Greeley on Bailey
 Great Canal Enterprise, The
 Great African Tea Company, The
 Greek Meeting Greek

 H.

 Habits of Great Men
 Hamlet from a Rural Point
 Hall and Hayes
 H. G. and Terpsichore
 Hints for the Family
 High and Low Church
 Hints upon High Art
 Hints to Car Conductors
 Hints for Those Who Will Take Them
 Hints for the Census
 High Notes by our Musical Critic
 Hiram Green at Saratoga
 Hiram Green at the Tower of Babel
 Hiram Green on the Chinese
 Hiram Green Experience as an Editor
 Hiram Green writes to Napoleon
 Hiram Green on Jersey Musquitoes
 Hiram Green at the Female Convention
 Hiram Green on Base Ball
 Hiram Green among the Fat men
 Hiram Green to Napoleon
 Hiram Green in Wall Street
 How a Disciple of Fox Became a Lover of Bull
 Horticultural Hints
 Holy-Grail, and other Poems, The
 Homodeification
 Hyperborean

 I.

 Idiomatic Items
 Important to Publishers
 Indian, The
 Interesting to Bone Boilers
 Interior Illumination
 Indian Question, The
 Information Wanted
 Inspiration vs. Perspiration
 Items from our Rural Reporters

 J

 Joys of Summer, The
 Jottings from Washington
 Jumbles
 Jupiter Bellicosus

 K

 Kellogg Testimonials, The
 King Oakey, the First
 King Craft Looking Up

 L

 Latest from Washington
 Latest News Items
 Latest about "Lo."
 Letter from a Friend
 Letter of Advice, A
 Letter from a Japanese Student
 Letter from a Croaker, A
 Leaven of Leavenworth
 Literary Vampire
 Lines by a Hapless Swain
 Long Shot, A
 "Lot" on a Lot of Proverbs
 Love in a Boarding-House
 Lucus a non, etc

 M

 Mariner's Wron
gs, The
 Marriage Market in Rome, The
 Maine Question in Massachusetts
 Marine Mixture, A
 Managers of Railroads, To
 Medical Miss, A
 Methodist Book Concern, Concerning the
 Mercantile Library Association
 Mind your P's and Q's
 Miseries of a Handsome Man
 Motley Melody, A
 Municipal Competition
 Murphy the Conqueror
 Mythology, Of
 Mystery of Mr. E. Drood.
 Mythology, Further of
 Mythology, More

 N

 National Taxidermy
 Napoleon's Latest Manifesto
 Natural Mistake, A
 New Conglomerate Pavement
 New England to New York
 New Railway Project, A
 New "Process", The
 Ninety-nine in the Shade
 Nothing like Leather
 Notary's Protest, A
 Nought for Nought
 Now We Shall Have It
 Notes from Chicago
 Now's your Chance
 Note from the Orchestra

 O

 Ode to the Missing Collector
 Old Bailey Practitioner, An
 Old Boy to the Young Ones, An
 Old Saws Re-set
 Old Iron
 Olive Logan
 Opinions of the Press
 Orange Peel, Etcetera
 Origin of the Mississippi
 Orpheus C. Kerr, Sketch of
 Organizing an Organ
 Origin of Punchinello
 O, that air!
 Our Future
 Out of the Streets
 Our Literary Legate
 Our Cuban Telegrams
 Our Explosives

 P

 Patriotic Adoration
 Pat to the Question
 Parable About the 12th of July
 Pardonable Solicitude
 Perennius AEre
 Periodical Literature
 Philadelvings
 Plays and Shows
 Please the Pigs
 Plea for Protection
 Pluckily Patriotic, Still
 Poems of the Cradle
 Popularity, Our
 Political Claptrap
 Police Report, Our
 Possible "Why" of it, The
 Portfolio, Our
 Prospectus
 Pump, The
 Punchinello's New Charter
 Punchinello in Wall Street
 Punchinello's Lyrics
 Punchinello and the Aldermen
 Punchinello on the Jury
 Punchinello Is Sorry
 Punchinello's Vacations
 Punchinello as a "Savan"

 Q

 Query

 R

 Raising Cain
 Rather Mixed
 Rather Flashy Idea, A
 Ramblings
 Real Estate of Woman, The
 Religious Amusements
 Remonstrance, A
 Religion of Temperance
 Receipe to be Tested
 Reform in Juvenile Literature
 Rejuvenated France
 Right and Left
 Robins, The
 Romaunt of the Oyster
 Rose by any other Name, A
 Roar from 
Niagara, A
 Romance of a Rich Young Man

 S

 Sailing Directions, &c
 Science Forever
 Seasonable Parody, A
 Several Unsavory Renderings
 Ship Ahoy!
 Sic Semper Epluribus, &c
 Sorosian Impromptu, A
 Song of the Returned Soldier
 Song of the New Babel
 Song of the Red Cloud
 Song of the Chicago Lawyer
 Song of the Mosquito
 Society, &c
 Spencerian Chaff
 Spiritual Susceptibility of Cats
 Spring Fever
 Spirit of the Navy
 Standard Literature
 Stridor Pentium
 Summer on the Catskills
 Summer at Sandy Point

 T

 Taking a Senator's Measure
 Take Care of the Wounded
 Temperance Song
 That Indian Talk
 Thiers, Idle Thiers
 Thirteenth Man in the Omnibus
 Titans
 "Tobacco Parliament" of Ohio, The
 To Our Readers
 Traveller's Tales
 Treatment for Potato Bugs
 Truly Noble
 Tutti Tremando
 Turkish Bath, My

 U

 Ulyss, To
 Umbrella, The
 Uncle Samuel
 Universockdology
 Urbs in Rure

 V

 V.H. to Punchinello
 Visit to "Sheridan's Ride"
 Voice from the Hub
 Voice of the Turtle, The
 Vultures Call, The

 W

 Wanted, a Sheriff
 War, The
 Wat Cum Snecst
 Way to Become Great, The
 Weather Prophecies for May
 Western Nomenclature
 What the Press is Expected to Say
 What I Know About Free Trade
 What I Know About Protection
 What Is It
 What Sigerson Says
 What Shall We Call It?
 Why is it so Dry?
 Woman, Past and Present
 Women's Rights Again
 Woman in Wall Street
 Woman in the Census
 Woman's Right to Ballot and Bullet
 Words and their Abases
 Wrong Mouth
 Wringer of the Future

 Y

 Y.M.C.A.

 * * * * *
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart& Co. |
 | |
 | Have opened |
 | |
 | AN IMMENSE STOCK OF |
 | |
 | SILKS, |
 | |
 | For |
 | |
 | STREET AND EVENING DRESSES, |
 | |
 | At $2 per yard, |
 | |
 | Recently sold at $4 and $5. |
 | |
 | A LARGE LINE OF |
 | |
 | STRIPED SILKS, |
 | |
 | FRESH GOODS |
 | |
 | $1 to $1.50 per yard. |
 | |
 | EXTRAORDINARY BARGAINS |
 | |
 | IN |
 | |
 | BLACK SILKS, |
 | |
 | From $1.25 per yard upward. |
 | |
 | Plain and Plaid Poplins, |
 | Satin
s de Chine, |
 | Empress Cloths, |
 | Royal Velvets, |
 | Serges, etc. |
 | |
 | Customers, strangers, and the public are respectfully |
 | requested to examine. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A.T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Have largely replenished all their |
 | |
 | Popular Stocks of |
 | |
 | DRESS GOODS, |
 | |
 | Etc., Etc. |
 | |
 | WITH GOODS WHICH |
 | |
 | For Quality, Style and Prices, |
 | |
 | CANNOT BE EXCELLED, |
 | |
 | and respectfully request purchasers |
 | |
 | To Examine the Same, |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10 Streets |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | EXTRAORDINARY BARGAINS |
 | |
 | IN |
 | |
 | CARPETS. |
 | |
 | 100 Pieces Five-Frame |
 | |
 | ENGLISH BRUSSELS, |
 | |
 | Reduced to $1.75 per yard. |
 | |
 | 200 Pieces do., Greater part Confined Styles, Reduced |
 | to $2 per yard. |
 | |
 | Very Best Quality |
 | |
 | ENGLISH TAPESTRY BRUSSELS |
 | |
 | $1.30 per yard. |
 | |
 | FRENCH MOQUETTES |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | AXMINSTERS |
 | |
 | $3.50 and $4 per yard. |
 | |
 | ROYAL WILTONS, |
 | |
 | Best Quality, $2.50 and $3 per yard. |
 | |
 | CROSSLEY'S VELVETS, |
 | |
 | Choice Designs, $2.50 per yard. |
 | |
 | Superfine Ingrains, 3-Plys. |
 | |
 | English and Domestic |
 | |
 | OILCLOTHS, RUGS, |
 | |
 | MATS, ETC., |
 | |
 | At extremely low prices |
 | |
 | A.T. STEWART & Co. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of the kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | 
" " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00 |
 | Single copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 by 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-5/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens; |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | Pointer and Quail; Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; The Unconscious Sleeper; The Two |
 | Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-3/4. |
 | Spring; Summer: Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. ll x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13 x 18. |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9-1/8 x 4-1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and Six American Landscapes. |
 | (A set.) 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 | Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New Y
ork, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter, in |
 | advance; the CHROMOS will be mailed free on receipt of |
 | money. |
 | |
 | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be |
 | given. For special terms address the Company. |
 | |
 | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of |
 | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A |
 | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or |
 | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: THE WIFE'S WINDFALL.

_Smith (who had forgetfully left his pocket-book on the piano, last
night.)_ "HAVE YOU FOUND ANYTHING THIS MORNING, ANGELINA?"

_Angelina._ "O! YES, DEAR, THANKS--AND I'VE ORDERED A NEW PIANO STOOL,
SOME LACE CURTAINS, AND--SUCH A LOVE OF A BONNET!"]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "The Printing House of the United States." |
 | |
 | GEO. F. NESBITT & CO., |
 | |
 | General JOB PRINTERS, |
 | BLANK BOOK Manufacturers, |
 | STATIONERS. Wholesale and Retail. |
 | LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers. |
 | COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers, |
 | ENVELOPE Manufacturers, |
 | FINE CUT and COLOR Printers. |
 | |
 | 163, 165, 167, and 169 PEARL ST., |
 | 73, 75, 77, and 79 FINE ST., New York. |
 | |
 | ADVANTAGES.--All at the same premises, and under |
 | immediate supervision of the proprietors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Tourists and Pleasure Travelers |
 | |
 | will be glad to learn that that the Erie Railway Company has |
 | prepared |
 | |
 | COMBINATION EXCURSION or Round Trip Tickets, |
 | |
 | Valid during the t
he entire season, and embracing |
 | Ithaca--headwaters of Cayuga Lake--Niagara Falls, Lake |
 | Ontario, the River St. Lawrence, Montreal, Quebec, Lake |
 | Champlain, Lake George, Saratoga, the White Mountains, and |
 | all principal points of interest in Northern New York, the |
 | Canadas, and New England. Also similar Tickets at reduced |
 | rates, through Lake Superior, enabling travelers to visit |
 | the celebrated Iron Mountains and Copper Mines of that |
 | region. By applying at the Offices of the Erie Railway Co., |
 | Nos. 241, 529, and 957 Broadway; 205 Chambers St.; 33 |
 | Greenwich St.; cor. 125th St. and Third Avenue, Harlem; 338 |
 | Fulton St., Brooklyn; Depots foot of Chambers Street, and |
 | foot of 23rd St., New York; No. 3 Exchange Place, and Long |
 | Dock Depot, Jersey City, and the Agents at the principal |
 | hotels, travelers can obtain just the Ticket they desire, as |
 | well as all the necessary information. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PRANG'S LATEST PUBLICATIONS: "Wild Flowers," "Water-Lilies," |
 | "Chas. Dickens." |
 | |
 | PRANG'S CHROMOS sold in all Art Stores throughout the world. |
 | |
 | PRANG'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE sent free on receipt of stamp. |
 | |
 | L. PRANG & CO., Boston. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | With a large and varied experience in the management and |
 | publication of a paper of the class herewith submitted, and |
 | with the still more positive advantage of an Ample Capital |
 | to justify the undertaking, the |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO. |
 | |
 | OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, |
 | |
 | Presents to the public for approval, the new |
 | |
 | ILLUSTRATED HUMOROUS AND SATIRICAL |
 | |
 | WEEKLY PAPER, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO, |
 | |
 | The first number of which was issued under date of April 2. |
 | |
 | ORIGINAL ARTICLES, |
 | |
 | Suitable for the paper, and Original Designs, or suggestive |
 | ideas or sketches for illustratio
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Papeters, Mary Meehan,
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

 THE LIFE OF HON. WILLIAM F. CODY

 KNOWN AS BUFFALO BILL

 THE FAMOUS HUNTER, SCOUT AND GUIDE.

 _AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY_.

 1879

To GENERAL PHILIP H. SHERIDAN, THIS BOOK IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED
BY THE AUTHOR.

[Illustration: Yours Sincerely, W. F. Cody]

INTRODUCTORY.

The life and adventures of Hon. William F. Cody--Buffalo Bill--as told
by himself, make up a narrative which reads more like romance than
reality, and which in many respects will prove a valuable contribution
to the records of our Western frontier history. While no literary
excellence is claimed for the narrative, it has the greater merit of
being truthful, and is verified in such a manner that no one can doubt
its veracity. The frequent reference to such military men as Generals
Sheridan, Carr, Merritt, Crook, Terry, Colonel Royal, and other officers
under whom Mr. Cody served as scout and guide at different times and in
various sections of the frontier, during the numerous Indian campaigns
of the last ten or twelve years, affords ample proof of his
genuineness as a thoroughbred scout.

There is no humbug or braggadocio about Buffalo Bill. He is known far and
wide, and his reputation has been earned honestly and by hard work. By a
combination of circumstances he was educated to the life of a plainsman
from his youth up; and not the least interesting portion of his career is
that of his early life, passed as it was in Kansas during the eventful
and troubleous times connected with the settlement of that state.
Spending much time in the saddle, while a mere boy he crossed the plains
many times in company with bull-trains; on some of these trips he met
with thrilling adventures and had several hairbreadth escapes from death
at the hands of Indians. Then, for a while, he was dashing over the
plains as a pony-express rider. Soon afterwards, mounted on the high seat
of an overland stagecoach, he was driving a six-in-hand team. We next
hear of him cracking the bull-whacke
r's whip, and commanding a
wagon-train through a wild and dangerous country to the far West. During
the civil war he enlisted as a private, and became a scout with the Union
army; since the war he has been employed as hunter, trapper, guide, scout
and actor. As a buffalo hunter he has no superior; as a trailer of
Indians he has no equal. For many years he has taken an active part in
all the principal Indian campaigns on the Western frontier, and as a
scout and guide he has rendered inestimable services to the various
expeditions which he accompanied.

During his life on the plains he not only had many exciting adventures
himself, but he became associated with many of the other noted plainsmen,
and in his narrative he frequently refers to them and relates many
interesting incidents and thrilling events connected with them. He has
had a fertile field from which to produce this volume, and has frequently
found it necessary to condense the facts in order to embody the most
interesting events of his life. The following from a letter written by
General E. A. Carr, of the Fifth Cavalry, now commanding Fort McPherson,
speaks for itself:

 * * * * *

"I first met Mr. Cody, October 22d, 1868, at Buffalo Station, on the
Kansas Pacific railroad, in Kansas. He was scout and guide for the seven
companies of the Fifth Cavalry, then under Colonel Royal, and of which I
was ordered to take the command.

"From his services with my command, steadily in the field for nine
months, from October, 1868, to July, 1869, and at subsequent times, I am
qualified to bear testimony to his qualities and character.

"He was very modest and unassuming. I did not know for a long time how
good a title he had to the appellation, 'Buffalo Bill.' I am apt to
discount the claims of scouts, as they will occasionally exaggerate; and
when I found one who said nothing about himself, I did not think much of
him, till I had proved him. He is a natural gentleman in his manners as
well as in character, and has none of the roughness of the typical
frontiersman. 
He can take his own part when required, but I have never
heard of his using a knife or a pistol, or engaging in a quarrel where it
could be avoided. His personal strength and activity are such that he can
hardly meet a man whom he cannot handle, and his temper and disposition
are so good that no one has reason to quarrel with him.

"His eye-sight is better than a good field glass; he is the best trailer
I ever heard of; and also the best judge of the 'lay of country,'--that
is, he is able to tell what kind of country is ahead, so as to know how
to act. He is a perfect judge of distance, and always ready to tell
correctly how many miles it is to water, or to any place, or how many
miles have been marched.

"Mr. Cody seemed never to tire and was always ready to go, in the darkest
night or the worst weather, and usually volunteered, knowing what the
emergency required. His trailing, when following Indians or looking for
stray animals or game, is simply wonderful. He is a most extraordinary
hunter. I could not believe that a man could be certain to shoot antelope
running till I had seen him do it so often.

"In a fight Mr. Cody is never noisy, obstreperous or excited. In fact, I
never hardly noticed him in a fight, unless I happened to want him, or he
had something to report, when he was always in the right place, and his
information was always valuable and reliable.

"During the winter of 1868, we encountered hardships and exposure in
terrific snow storms, sleet, etc., etc. On one occasion, that winter, Mr.
Cody showed his quality by quietly offering to go with some dispatches to
General Sheridan, across a dangerous region, where another principal
scout was reluctant to risk himself.

"On the 13th of May, 1869, he was in the fight at Elephant Rock, Kansas,
and trailed the Indians till the 16th, when we got another fight out of
them on Spring Creek, in Nebraska, and scattered them after following
them one hundred and fifty miles in three days. It was at Spring Creek
where Cody was ahead of the command about three mil
es, with the advance
guard of forty men, when two hundred Indians suddenly surrounded them.
Our men, dismounted and formed in a circle, holding their horses, firing
and slowly retreating. They all, to this day, speak of Cody's coolness
and bravery. This was the Dog Soldier band which captured Mrs. Alderdice
and Mrs. Weichel in Kansas. They strangled Mrs. Alderdice's baby, killed
Mrs. Weichel's husband, and took a great deal of property and stock from
different persons. We got on their trail again, June 28th, and followed
it nearly two hundred miles, till we struck the Indians on Sunday, July
11th, 1869, at Summit Spring. The Indians, as soon as they saw us coming,
killed Mrs. Alderdice with a hatchet, and shot Mrs. Weichel, but
fortunately not fatally, and she was saved.

"Mr. Cody has since served with me as post guide and scout at Fort
McPherson, where he frequently distinguished himself.

"In the summer of 1876, Cody went with me to the Black Hills region where
he killed Yellow-Hand. Afterwards he was with the Big Horn and
Yellowstone expedition. I consider that his services to the country and
the army by trailing, finding and fighting Indians, and thus protecting
the frontier settlers, and by guiding commands over the best and most
practicable routes, have been far beyond the compensation he has
received. His friends of the Fifth Cavalry are all glad that he is in a
lucrative business, and hope that he may live long and prosper.
Personally, I feel under obligations to him for assistance in my
campaigns which no other man could, or would, have rendered. Of course I
wish him, and his, every success."

E. A. CARR, Lt. Col. 5th Cav., Brev. Maj. Gen'l U. S. Army. FORT
McPHERSON, NEBRASKA, July 3d, 1878

 * * * * *

Buffalo Bill is now an actor, and is meeting with success. He owns a
large and valuable farm adjoining the town of North Platte, Nebraska, and
there his family live in ease and comfort. He has also an extensive
cattle ranch on the Dismal river, sixty-five miles north of North Platte,
his partner being M
ajor Frank North, the old commander of the celebrated
Pawnee scouts. While many events of his career are known to the public,
yet the reader will find in this narrative much that will be entirely new
and intensely interesting to both young and old.

THE PUBLISHER.

Illustrations.

THE AUTHOR, PORTRAIT, ON STEEL

YOUTHFUL ADVENTURES

SAMUEL'S FATAL ACCIDENT

BILLINGS AS A BOCARRO

BILLINGS RIDING LITTLE GRAY

EXCITING SPORT

STAKING OUT LOTS

MY FATHER STABBED

MY FATHER'S ESCAPE

LIFE OR DEATH

BOYISH SPORT

TWO TO ONE

KILLING MY FIRST INDIAN

A PRAIRIE SCHOONER

WILD BILL (PORTRAIT)

HOLDING THE FORT

CAMPING IN A SEPULCHRE

RAFTING OS THE PLATTE

RIDING PONY EXPRESS

SAVED BY CHIEF RAIN IN-THE-FACE

CHANGING HORSES

ATTACK ON STAGE COACH

ALF. SLADE KILLING THE DRIVER

THE HORSE THIEVES DEN

MY ESCAPE FROM THE HORSE THIEVES

BOB SCOTT'S FAMOUS COACH HIDE

"NEARLY EVERY MAN HAD TWO HORSES"

WILD BILL AND THE OUTLAWS

WILD BILL'S DUEL

GENERAL GEO. A. CUSTER (Portrait)

DEPARTING RICHES

TONGUES AND TENDERLOINS

THE INDIAN HORSE THIEVES

THE MAN WHO FIRED THE GUN

BUFFALO BILL

"DOWN WENT HIS HORSE"

THE FIRE SIGNAL

KIT CARSON (Portrait)

A GOOD HORSE

A BIG JOKE

AMBUSHING THE INDIANS

WHOA THERE!

DELIVERING DISPATCHES TO GENERAL SHERIDAN

THE TWO TRAMPS

CARRYING DISPATCHES

GEN'L PHIL. SHERIDAN (PORTRAIT)

BATTLE ON THE ARICKAREE

BRINGING MEAT INTO CAMP

"INDIANS!"

GENERAL E. A. CARR (PORTRAIT)

A CRACK SHOT

A HARD CROWD

CAMPING IN THE SNOW

A WELCOME VISITOR

ANTELOPES

THE RECAPTURE OF BEVINS

ROBBING A STAGE COACH

INDIAN VILLAGE

THE KILLING OF TALL BULL

AN OLD BONE

A WEDDING CEREMONY

A RIDE FOR LIFE

PRAIRIE DOG VILLAGE

McCARTHY'S FRIGHT

FINDING THE REMAINS OF THE BUCK PARTY

SPOTTED TAIL (PORTRAIT)

GRAND DUKE ALEXIS (PORTRAIT)

INDIAN EXERCISES

TWO-LANCE KILLING A BUFFALO

AN EMBARRASSING SITUATION?

TEXAS JACK (PORTRAIT)

RIFLES

STUDYING THE PARTS

BEHIND THE FOOTLIGHTS

LEARNING THE GAME

GETTING SATISFACTION

A DUEL WITH CHIEF YELLOW HAND

SCOUTING ON A STEAMBOAT

CLOSE QUARTERS

ONE OF
 THE TROUPE

Contents

CHAPTER I.

CHILDHOOD.

Early Days in Iowa--A Brother's Death--The Family Move to a New
Country--Incidents on the Road--The Horse Race--Our "Little Gray"
Victorious--A Pleasant Acquaintance--Uncle Elijah Cody--Our New
Home--My Ponies.

CHAPTER II.

EARLY INFLUENCES.

Dress Parade at Fort Leavenworth--The Beautiful Salt Creek Valley--The
Mormon Emigrants--The Wagon Trains--The Cholera--A Lively Scene--My First
Sight of Indians--"Dolly" and "Prince"--A Long-Lost Relative Turns
up--Adventurous Career of Horace Billings--His Splendid
Horsemanship--Catching Wild Horses.

CHAPTER III.

BOY DAYS IN KANSAS.

My Indian Acquaintances--An Indian Barbecue--Beginning of the Kansas
Troubles--An Indiscreet Speech by my Father, who is Stabbed for his
Boldness--Persecutions at the Hands of the Missourians--A Strategic
Escape--A Battle at Hickory Point--A Plan to Kill Father is Defeated by
Myself--He is Elected to the Lecompton Legislature--I Enter the Employ of
William Russell--Herding Cattle--A Plot to Blow Up our House--A Drunken
Missourian on the War-Path.

CHAPTER IV.

YOUTHFUL EXPERIENCES.

At School--My First Love Scrape--I Punish my Rival, and then Run Away--My
First Trip Across the Plains--Steve Gobel and I are Friends once
more--Death of my Father--I Start for Salt Lake--Our Wagon Train
Surprised by Indians, who Drive us off, and Capture our Outfit--I Kill my
First Indian--Our Return to Leavenworth--I am Interviewed by a Newspaper
Reporter, who gives me a Good "Send-Off."

CHAPTER V.

IN BUSINESS.

My Second Trip Across the Plains--The Salt Lake Trail--Wild Bill--He
Protects me from the Assault of a Bully--A Buffalo Hunt--Our Wagon Train
Stampeded by Buffaloes--We are Taken Prisoners by the Mormons--We Proceed
to Fort Bridger.

CHAPTER VI.

HARD TIMES.

A Dreary Winter At Fort Bridger--Short Rations--Mule Steaks--Homeward
Bound in the Spring--A Square Meal--Corraled by Indians--A Mule
Barricade--We Hold the Fort--Home Again--Off for the West--Trapping on
the Chugwater And Laramie Rivers--We go to S
leep In a Human Grave--A
Horrifying Discovery--A Jollification at Oak Grove Ranch--Home Once
More--I go to School--The Pike's Peak Gold Excitement--Down the Platte
River on a Raft--I Become a Pony Express Rider.

CHAPTER VII.

ACCIDENTS AND ESCAPES.

Trapping on Prairie Dog Creek--An Accident whereby we Lose one of our
Oxen--I Fall and Break my Leg--Left Alone in Camp--Unwelcome Visitors--A
Party of Hostile Sioux Call upon me and Make Themselves at Home--Old
Rain-in-the-Face Saves my Life--Snow-Bound-A Dreary Imprisonment--Return
of my Partner--A Joyful Meeting--We Pull Out for Home--Harrington Dies.

CHAPTER VIII.

ADVENTURES ON THE OVERLAND ROAD.

Introduction to Alf. Slade--He Employs me as a Pony Express Rider--I Make
a Long Ride--Indians Attack an Overland Stage Coach--Wild Bill Leads a
Successful Expedition against the Indians--A Grand Jollification at
Sweetwater Bridge--Slade Kills a Stage Driver--The End of the Spree--A
Bear Hunt--I fall among Horse Thieves--My Escape--I Guide a Party to
Capture the Gang.

CHAPTER IX.

FAST DRIVING.

Bob Scott, the Stage Driver--The Story of the Most Reckless Piece of
Stage Driving that ever Occurred on the Overland Road.

CHAPTER X.

QUESTIONABLE PROCEEDINGS.

The Civil War--Jayhawking--Wild Bill's Fight with the McCandless Gang of
Desperadoes--I become Wild Bill's Assistant Wagon-Master--We Lose our
Last Dollar on a Horse Race--He becomes a Government Scout--He has a Duel
at Springfield.

CHAPTER XI.

A SOLDIER.

Scouting against the Indians in the Kiowa and Comanche country--The
Red-Legged Scouts--A Trip to Denver--Death of my Mother--I Awake one
Morning to Find myself a Soldier--I am put on Detached Service as a
Scout--The Chase after Price--An Unexpected Meeting with Wild Bill--An
Unpleasant Situation--Wild Bill's Escape from the Southern Lines--The
Charge upon Price's Army--We return to Springfield.

CHAPTER XII.

A WEDDING.

I Fall in Love--A Successful Courting Expedition--I am Married--The
Happiest Event of my Life--Our Trip up the Missouri River--The
Bushwhacker
s Come after me--I become Landlord of a Hotel--Off for the
Plains once more--Scouting on the Frontier for the Government--A Ride
with General Custer--An Expedition from Fort Hays has a Lively Chase
after Indians--Cholera in Camp.

CHAPTER XIII.

A MILLIONAIRE.

A Town Lot Speculation--"A Big Thing"--I become Half-Owner of a
City--Corner Lots Reserved--Rome's Rapid Rise--We consider ourselves
Millionaires--Dr. Webb--Hays City--We Regard ourselves as Paupers--A Race
with Indians--Captain Graham's Scout after the Indians.

CHAPTER XIV.

EARNING A TITLE.

Hunting for the Kansas Pacific--How I got my Name of "Buffalo Bill"--The
Indians give me a Lively Chase--They get a Dose of their own
Medicine--Another Adventure--Scotty and myself Corraled by Indians--A
Fire Signal brings Assistance--Kit Carson.

CHAPTER XV.

CHAMPION BUFFALO KILLER.

A Buffalo Killing Match with Billy Comstock--An Excursion party from St.
Louis come out to Witness the Sport--I win the Match, and am declared the
Champion Buffalo Killer of the Plains.

CHAPTER XVI.

A COURIER.

Scouting--Captured by Indians--A Strategic Escape--A Hot Pursuit--The
Indians led into an Ambush--Old Satanta's Tricks and Threats--Excitement
at Fort Larned--Herders and Wood-Choppers Killed by the Indians--A
Perilous Ride--I get into the wrong Pew--Safe, arrival at Fort
Hays--Interview with General Sheridan--My ride to Fort Dodge--I return
to Fort Larned--My Mule gets away from me--A long Walk--The Mule Passes
In his Chips.

CHAPTER XVII.

AN APPOINTMENT.

General Sheridan appoints me Guide and Chief of Scouts of the Fifth
Cavalry--The Dog Soldiers--General Forsyth's Fight on the Arickaree Fork.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SCOUTING.

Arrival of the Fifth Cavalry at Fort Hays--Out on a Scout--A little
Skirmish with Indians--A Buffalo Hunt--A False Alarm in camp--A Scout on
the Beaver--The Supply Camp is Surprised--Arrival of General Carr--The
new Lieutenant and his Reception--Another Indian Hunt--An Engagement--A
Crack Shot--I have a little Indian fight of my own--Return to Fort
Wallac
e--While hunting Buffaloes with a small Party, we are Attacked by
Fifty Indians.

CHAPTER XIX.

A TOUGH TIME.

A Winter's Campaign in the Canadian River Country--Searching for
Penrose's Command--A Heavy Snow-Storm--Taking the Wagon Train down a
Mountain Side--Camp Turkey--Darkey Deserters from Penrose's
Command--Starvation in Penrose's Camp--We reach the Command with
Timely Relief--Wild Bill--A Beer Jollification--Hunting
Antelopes--Return to Fort Lyon.

CHAPTER XX.

AN EXCITING CHASE.

A Difficulty with a Quartermaster's Agent--I give him a Severe
Pounding--Stormy Interview with General Bankhead and Captain Laufer--I
put another "Head" on the Quartermaster's Agent--I am Arrested--In the
Guard-House--General Bankhead Releases me--A Hunt after Horse
Thieves--Their Capture--Escape of Bevins--His Recapture--Escape of
Williams--Bevins Breaks Out of Jail--His Subsequent Career.

CHAPTER XXI.

A MILITARY EXPEDITION.

The Fifth Cavalry is Ordered to the Department of the Platte--Liquids
_vs._ Solids--A Skirmish with the Indians--Arrival at Fort
McPherson--Appointed Chief of Scouts--Major Frank North and the Pawnee
Scouts--Belden the White Chief--The Shooting Match--Review of the Pawnee
Scouts--An Expedition against the Indians--"Buckskin Joe."

CHAPTER XXII.

A DESPERATE FIGHT.

Pawnees _vs_. Siouxs--We strike a Large Trail--The Print of a Woman's
Shoe--The Summit Springs Fight--A Successful Charge--Capture of the
Indian Village--Rescue of a White Woman--One hundred and forty Indians
Killed--I kill Tall Bull and Capture his Swift Steed--The Command
proceeds to Fort Sedgwick--Powder Face--A Scout after Indian
Horse-Thieves--"Ned Buntline"--"Tall Bull" as a Racer--Powder Face wins a
Race without a Rider--An Expedition to the Niobrara--An Indian Tradition.

CHAPTER XXIII.

ADMINISTERING JUSTICE.

I make my Home at Fort McPherson--Arrival of my Family--Hunting and Horse
Racing--An Indian Raid--Powder Face Stolen--A Lively Chase--An Expedition
to the Republican River Country--General Duncan--A Skirmish with the
Indians--A St
ern Chase--An Addition to my Family--Kit Carson Cody--I am
made a Justice of the Peace--A Case of Replevin--I perform a Marriage
Ceremony--Professor Marsh's Fossil-Hunting Expedition.

CHAPTER XXIV.

HUNTING EXPEDITIONS.

The Grand Hunt of General Sheridan, James Gordon Bennett, and other
Distinguished Gentlemen--From Fort McPherson to Fort Hays--Incidents of
the Trip--"Ten Days on the Plains"--General Carr's Hunting Expedition--A
Joke on McCarthy--A Search for the Remains of Buck's Surveying Party, who
had been Murdered by the Indians.

CHAPTER XXV.

HUNTING WITH A GRAND DUKE.

The Grand Duke Alexis Hunt--Selection of a Camp--I Visit Spotted
Tail's Camp--The Grand Duke and Party arrive at Camp Alexis--Spotted
Tail's Indians give a Dance--The Hunt--Alexis Kills his First
Buffalo--Champagne--The Duke Kills another Buffalo--More Champagne--End
of the Hunt--Departure of the Duke and his Party.

CHAPTER XXVI.

SIGHT-SEEING.

My Visit in the East--Reception in Chicago--Arrival in New York--I am
well Entertained by my old Hunting Friends--I View the Sights of the
Metropolis--Ned Buntline--The Play of "Buffalo Bill"--I am Called Upon to
make a Speech--A Visit to my Relatives--Return to the West.

CHAPTER XXVII.

HONORS.

Arrival of the Third Cavalry at Fort McPherson--A Scout after Indians--A
Desperate Fight with Thirteen Indians--A Hunt with the Earl of Dunraven--A
Hunt with a Chicago Party--Milligan's Bravery--Neville--I am Elected to
the Nebraska Legislature.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

AN ACTOR.

I resolve to go upon the Stage--I resign my Seat in the
Legislature--Texas Jack--"The Scouts of the Plains"--A Crowded House--A
Happy Thought--A Brilliant _Debut_--A Tour of the Country.

CHAPTER XXIX.

STARRING.

The Theatrical Season of 1873-74--Wild Bill and his Tricks--He Leaves us
at Rochester--He becomes a "Star"--A Bogus "Wild Bill "--A Hunt with
Thomas P. Medley, an English gentleman--A Scout on the Powder River and
in the Big Horn Country--California Joe--Theatrical Tour of 1874 and
1875--Death of my son, Kit Carson Cody.

C
HAPTER XXX.

A RETURN TO THE PLAINS.

The Sioux Campaign of 1876--I am appointed Guide and Chief of Scouts of
the Fifth Cavalry--An Engagement with eight hundred Cheyennes--A Duel
with Yellow Hand--Generals Terry and Crook meet, and cooperate Together.

CHAPTER XXXI.

DANGEROUS WORK.

Scouting on a Steamboat--Captain Grant Marsh--A Trip down the Yellowstone
River--Acting as Dispatch Carrier--I Return East and open my Theatrical
Season with a New Play--Immense Audiences--I go into the Cattle Business
in company with Major Prank North--My Home at North Platte.

CHAPTER XXXII.

CONCLUSION.

A Cattle "Round-up"--A Visit to My Family in our New Home--A Visit from
my Sisters--I go to Denver--Buying more Cattle--Pawnee and Nez-Perces
Indians Engaged for a Theatrical Tour--The Season of 1878-79--An
experience in Washington--Home Once More.

THE LIFE OF HON. WILLIAM F. CODY

CHAPTER I.

CHILDHOOD.

My _debut_ upon the world's stage occurred on February 26th, 1845. The
scene of this first important event in my adventurous career, being in
Scott county, in the State of Iowa. My parents, Isaac and Mary Ann Cody,
who were numbered among the pioneers of Iowa, gave to me the name of
William Frederick. I was the fourth child in the family. Martha and
Julia, my sisters, and Samuel my brother, had preceded me, and the
children who came after me were Eliza, Nellie, Mary, and Charles, born in
the order named.

At the time of my birth the family resided on a farm which they called
"Napsinekee Place,"--an Indian name--and here the first six or seven
years of my childhood were spent. When I was about seven years old my
father moved the family to the little town of LeClair, located on the
bank of the Mississippi, fifteen miles above the city of Davenport. Even
at that early age my adventurous spirit led me into all sorts of mischief
and danger, and when I look back upon my childhood's days I often wonder
that I did not get drowned while swimming or sailing, or my neck broken
while I was stealing apples in the neighboring orchards.

I we
ll remember one day that I went sailing with two other boys; in a few
minutes we found ourselves in the middle of the Mississippi; becoming
frightened at the situation we lost our presence of mind, as well as our
oars. We at once set up a chorus of pitiful yells, when a man, who
fortunately heard us, came to our rescue with a canoe and towed us
ashore. We had stolen the boat, and our trouble did not end until we had
each received a merited whipping, which impressed the incident vividly
upon my mind. I recollect several occasions when I was nearly eaten up by
a large and savage dog, which acted as custodian of an orchard and also
of a melon patch, which I frequently visited. Once, as I was climbing
over the fence with a hatful of apples, this dog, which had started for
me, caught me by the seat of the pantaloons, and while I clung to the top
of the fence he literally tore them from my legs, but fortunately did not
touch my flesh. I got away with the apples, however, by tumbling over to
the opposite side of the fence with them.

It was at LeClair that I acquired my first experience as an equestrian.
Somehow or other I had managed to corner a horse near a fence, and had
climbed upon his back. The next moment the horse got his back up and
hoisted me into the air, I fell violently to the ground, striking upon my
side in such a way as to severely wrench and strain my arm, from the
effects of which I did not recover for some time. I abandoned the art of
horsemanship for a while, and was induced after considerable persuasion
to turn my attention to letters--my A, B, C's--which were taught me at
the village school.

My father at this time was running a stage line, between Chicago and
Davenport, no railroads then having been built west of Chicago. In 1849
he got the California fever and made up his mind to cross the great
plains--which were then and for years afterwards called the American
Desert--to the Pacific coast. He got ready a complete outfit and started
with quite a party. After proceeding a few miles, all but my f
ather, and
greatly to his disappointment, changed their minds for some reason and
abandoned the enterprise. They all returned home, and soon afterwards
father moved his family out to Walnut Grove Farm, in Scott county.

[Illustration: YOUTHFUL ADVENTURES.]

While living there I was sent to school, more for the purpose of being
kept out of mischief than to learn anything. Much of my time was spent in
trapping quails, which were very plentiful. I greatly enjoyed studying
the habits of the little birds, and in devising traps to take them in. I
was most successful with the common figure "4" trap which I could build
myself. Thus I think it was that I acquired my love for hunting. I
visited the quail traps twice a day, morning and evening, and as I had
now become quite a good rider I was allowed to have one of the farm
horses to carry me over my route. Many a jolly ride I had and many a
boyish prank was perpetrated after getting well away from and out of the
sight of home with the horse.

There was one event which occurred in my childhood, which I cannot recall
without a feeling of sadness. It was the death of my brother Samuel, who
was accidentally killed in his twelfth year.

My father at the time, being considerable of a politician as well as a
farmer, was attending a political convention; for he was well known in
those days as an old line Whig. He had been a member of the Iowa
legislature, was a Justice of the Peace, and had held other offices. He
was an excellent stump speaker and was often called upon to canvass the
country round about for different candidates. The convention which he was
attending at the time of the accident was being held at a cross-road
tavern called "Sherman's," about a mile away.

Samuel and I had gone out together on horseback for the cows. He rode a
vicious mare, which mother had told him time and again not to ride, as it
had an ugly disposition. We were passing the school house just as the
children were being dismissed, when Samuel undertook to give an
exhibition of his horsemanship, he b
eing a good rider for a boy. The
mare, Betsy, became unmanageable, reared and fell backward upon him,
injuring him internally. He was picked up and carried amid great
excitement to the house of a neighbor.

I at once set out with my horse at the top of his speed for my father,
and informed him of Samuel's mishap. He took the horse and returned
immediately. When I arrived at Mr. Burns' house, where my brother was, I
found my father, mother and sisters there, all weeping bitterly at
Samuel's bedside. A physician, after examining him, pronounced his
injuries to be of a fatal character. He died the next morning.

My brother was a great favorite with everybody, and his death cast a
gloom upon the whole neighborhood. It was a great blow to all of the
family, and especially to father who seemed to be almost heart
broken over it.

Father had been greatly disappointed at the failure of his California
expedition, and still desired to move to some new country. The death of
Samuel no doubt increased this desire, and he determined to emigrate.
Accordingly, early in the spring of 1852, he disposed of his farm, and
late in March we took our departure for Kansas, which was then an
unsettled territory. Our outfit consisted of one carriage, three wagons
and some fine blooded horses. The carriage was occupied by my mother and
sisters. Thus we left our Iowa home.

[Illustration: SAMUEL'S FATAL ACCIDENT.]

Father had a brother, Elijah Cody, living at Weston, Platte county,
Missouri. He was the leading merchant of the place. As the town was
located near the Kansas line father determined to visit him, and thither
our journey was directed. Our route lay across Iowa and Missouri, and the
trip proved of interest to all of us, and especially to me. There was
something new to be seen at nearly every turn of the road. At night the
family generally "put up" at hotels or cross-road taverns along the way.

One day as we were proceeding on our way, we were met by a horseman who
wanted to sell his horse, or trade-him for another. He said the hors
e had
been captured wild in California; that he was a runner and a racer; that
he had been sold by his different owners on account of his great desire
to run away when taking part in a race.

The stranger seemed to be very frank in his statements, and appeared to
be very anxious to get rid of the animal, and as we were going to Kansas
where there would be plenty of room for the horse to run as far as he
pleased, father concluded to make a trade for him; so an exchange of
animals was easily and satisfactorily effected.

The new horse being a small gray, we named him "Little Gray."

An opportunity of testing the racing qualities of the horse was soon
afforded. One day we drove into a small Missouri town or hamlet which lay
on our route, where the farmers from the surrounding country were
congregated for the purpose of having a holiday--the principal amusement
being horse-racing. Father had no trouble in arranging a race for Little
Gray, and selected one of his teamsters to ride him.

The Missourians matched their fastest horse against him and were
confident of cleaning out "the emigrant," as they called father. They
were a hard looking crowd. They wore their pantaloons in their boots;
their hair was long, bushy and untrimmed; their faces had evidently never
made the acquaintance of a razor. They seemed determined to win the race
by fair means or foul. They did a great deal of swearing, and swaggered
about in rather a ruffianly style.

All these incidents attracted my attention--everything being new to
me--and became firmly impressed upon my memory. My father, being
unaccustomed to the ways of such rough people, acted very cautiously; and
as they were all very anxious to bet on their own horse, he could not be
induced to wager a very large sum on Little Gray, as he was afraid of
foul play.

"Wa-al, now, stranger," exclaimed one of the crowd, "what kind o' critter
have you got anyhow, as how you're afraid to back him up very heavy?"

"I'll bet five to one agin the emergrant's, gray," said another.

"I'm betting the s
ame way. I'll go yer five hundred dollars agin a
hundred that the gray nag gits left behind. Do I hear any man who wants
to come agin me on them yer terms?" shouted still another.

"Hi! yer boys, give the stranger a chance. Don't scare him out of
his boots," said a man who evidently was afraid that my father
might back out.

Father had but little to say, however, and would not venture more than
fifty dollars on the result of the race.

"Gentlemen, I am only racing my horse for sport," said he, "and am only
betting enough to make it interesting. I have never seen Little Gray run,
and therefore don't know what he can do;" at the same time he was
confident that his horse would come in the winner, as he had chosen an
excellent rider for him.

Finally all the preliminaries of the contest were arranged. The judges
were chosen and the money was deposited in the hands of a stake-holder.
The race was to be a single dash, of a mile. The horses were brought side
by side and mounted by their riders.

At the signal--"One, two, three, go!"--off they started like a flash. The
Missouri horse took the lead for the first quarter of a mile; at the
half-mile, however, he began to weaken. The Missourians shouted
themselves hoarse in urging their horse, but all to no avail. The Little
Gray passed him and continued to leave him farther and farther behind,
easily winning the race.

The affair created a great deal of enthusiasm; but the race was conducted
with honor and fairness, which was quite an agreeable surprise to my
father, who soon found the Missourians to be at heart very clever
men--thus showing that outside appearances are sometimes very deceptive;
they nearly all came up and congratulated him on his success, asked him
why he had not bet more money on the race, and wanted to buy Little Gray.

"Gentlemen," said he, "when I drove up here and arranged for this race, I
felt confident that my horse would win it. I was among entire strangers,
and therefore I only bet a small amount. I was afraid that you would
cheat me in some way o
r other. I see now that I was mistaken, as I have
found you to be honorable men."

"Wa-all, you could have broke _me_" said the man who wanted to bet the
five hundred dollars to one hundred, "for that there nag o' yourn looks
no more like a runner nor I do."

During our stay in the place they treated us very kindly, and continued
to try to purchase Little Gray. My father, however, remained firm in his
determination not to part with him.

The next place of interest which we reached, after resuming our journey,
was within twenty miles of Weston. We had been stopping at farm houses
along the road, and could not get anything to eat in the shape of bread,
except corn bread, of which all had become heartily tired. As we were
driving along, we saw in the distance a large and handsome brick
residence. Father said: "They probably have white bread there."

We drove up to the house and learned that it was owned and occupied by
Mrs. Burns; mother of a well-known lawyer of that name, who is now living
in Leavenworth. She was a wealthy lady, and gave us to understand in a
pleasant way, that she did not entertain travelers. My father, in the
course of the conversation with her, said: "Do you know Elijah Cody?"

"Indeed, I do," said she; "he frequently visits us, and we visit him; we
are the best of friends."

"He is a brother of mine," said father.

"Is it possible!" she exclaimed; "Why, you must remain here all night.
Have your family come into the house at once. You must not go another
step today."

The kind invitation was accepted, and we remained there over night. As
father had predicted, we found plenty of white bread at this house, and
it proved quite a luxurious treat.

My curiosity was considerably aroused by the many <DW64>s which I saw
about the premises, as I had scarcely ever seen any <DW52> people,
the few, being on the steamboats as they passed up and down the
Mississippi river.

The next day my father and mother drove over to Weston in a carriage,
and returned with my Uncle Elijah. We then all proceeded to his ho
use,
and as Kansas was not yet open for settlement as a territory, we remained
there a few days, while father crossed over into Kansas on a prospecting
tour. He visited the Kickapoo agency--five miles above Weston--on the
Kansas side of the Missouri river. He became acquainted with the agent,
and made arrangements to establish himself there as an Indian trader. He
then returned to Weston and located the family on one of Elijah Cody's
farms, three miles from town, where we were to remain until Kansas should
be thrown open for settlement. After completing these arrangements, he
established a trading post at Salt Creek Valley, in Kansas, four miles
from the Kickapoo agency.

One day, after he had been absent some little time, he came home and said
that he had bought two ponies for me, and that next morning he would take
me over into Kansas. This was pleasant news, as I had been very anxious
to go there with him, and the fact that I was now the owner of two ponies
made me feel very proud. That night I could not sleep a wink. In the
morning I was up long before the sun, and after an early breakfast,
father and I started out on our trip. Crossing the Missouri river at the
Rialto Ferry, we landed in Kansas and passed along to Fort Leavenworth,
four miles distant.

CHAPTER II

EARLY INFLUENCES.

General Harney was in command at Fort Leavenworth at the time of our
visit, and a regiment of cavalry was stationed there. They were having a
dress parade when we rode up, and as this was the first time that I had
ever seen any soldiers, I thought it was a grand sight. I shall never
forget it, especially the manoeuvres on horseback.

After witnessing the parade we resumed our journey. On the way to my
father's trading camp we had to cross over a high hill known as Salt
Creek Hill, from the top of which we looked down upon the most beautiful
valley I have ever seen. It was about twelve miles long and five miles
wide. The different tributaries of Salt Creek came down from the range of
hills at the southwest. At the foot of the vall
ey another small
river--Plum Creek, also flowed. The bluffs fringed with trees, clad in
their full foliage, added greatly to the picturesqueness of the scene.

While this beautiful valley greatly interested me, yet the most novel
sight, of an entirely different character, which met my enraptured gaze,
was the vast number of white-covered wagons, or "prairie-schooners,"
which were encamped along the different streams. I asked my father what
they were and where they were going; he explained to me that they were
emigrant wagons bound for Utah and California.

At that time the Mormon and California trails ran through this
valley, which was always selected as a camping place. There were at
least one thousand wagons in the valley, and their white covers lent
a pleasing contrast to the green grass. The cattle were quietly
grazing near the wagons, while the emigrants were either resting or
attending to camp duties.

A large number of the wagons, as I learned from my father, belonged to
Majors & Russell, the great government freighters. They had several
trains there, each consisting of twenty-five wagons, heavily loaded with
government supplies. They were all camped and corraled in a circle.

While we were viewing this scene, a long wagon train came pulling up the
hill, bound out from Fort Leavenworth to some distant frontier post. The
cattle were wild and the men were whipping them fearfully, the loud
reports of the bull-whips sounding like gun-shots. They were
"doubling-up," and some of the wagons were being drawn by fifteen yokes
of oxen. I remember asking my father a great many questions, and he
explained to me all about the freighting business across the great
plains, and told me about the different government posts.

Pointing over to the army of wagons camped below us, he showed me which
were the Mormons' and which were the Californians', and said that we must
steer clear of the former as the cholera was raging among them. Five
hundred had died that spring--1853--and the grave-yard was daily
increasing its dimension
s. The unfortunate people had been overtaken by
the dreadful disease, and had been compelled to halt on their journey
until it abated.

While we were looking at the Mormons they were holding a funeral service
over the remains of some of their number who had died. Their old cemetery
is yet indicated by various land-marks, which, however, with the few
remaining head-boards, are fast disappearing.

We passed on through this "Valley of Death," as it might then have been
very appropriately called, and after riding for some time, my father
pointed out a large hill and showed me his camp, which afterwards
became our home.

There was another trading-post near by, which was conducted by Mr.
M.P. Rively, who had a store built, partly frame, and partly of logs.
We stopped at this establishment for a while, and found perhaps a
hundred men, women and children gathered there, engaged in trading and
gossipping. The men had huge pistols and knives in their belts; their
pantaloons were tucked in their boots; and they wore large
broad-rimmed hats.

To me they appeared like a lot of cut-throat pirates who had come ashore
for a lark. It was the first time I had ever seen men carrying pistols
and knives, and they looked like a very dangerous crowd. Some were buying
articles of merchandise; others were talking about the cholera, the
various camps, and matters of interest; while others were drinking whisky
freely and becoming intoxicated. It was a busy and an exciting scene, and
Rively appeared to be doing a rushing trade.

At some little distance from the store I noticed a small party of
dark-skinned and rather fantastically dressed people, whom I ascertained
were Indians, and as I had never before seen a real live Indian, I was
much interested in them. I went over and endeavored to talk to them, but
our conversation was very limited.

That evening we reached our camp, which was located two miles west of
Rively's. The first thing I did was to hunt up my ponies, and from my
father's description of them, I had no difficulty in finding t
hem.
They were lariated in the grass and I immediately ran up to them
supposing them to be gentle animals. I was greatly mistaken, however,
as they snorted and jumped away from me, and would not allow me to
come near them.

My father, who was standing not far distant, informed me that the ponies
were not yet broken. I was somewhat disappointed at this; and thereupon
he and one of his men caught one of the animals and bridled her, then
putting me on her back, led her around, greatly to my delight. I kept
petting her so much that she soon allowed me to approach her. She was a
beautiful bay, and I named her "Dolly;" the other pony was a sorrel, and
I called him "Prince."

In the evening some Indians visited the camp--which as yet consisted only
of tents, though some logs had been cut preparatory to building
houses--and exchanged their furs for clothing, sugar and tobacco. Father
had not learned their language, and therefore communicated with them by
means of signs. We had our supper by the camp-fire, and that night was
the first time I ever camped out and slept upon the ground.

The day had been an eventful one to me, for all the incidents were full
of excitement and romance to my youthful mind, and I think no apology is
needed for mentioning so many of the little circumstances, which so
greatly interested me in my childhood's days, and which no doubt had a
great influence in shaping my course in after years. My love of hunting
and scouting, and life on the plains generally, was the result of my
early surroundings.

The next morning father visited the Kickapoo agency, taking me along. He
rode a horse, and putting me on my pony "Dolly," led the animal all the
way. He seemed anxious to break me in, as well as the pony, and I
greatly enjoyed this, my first day's ride on a Kansas prairie.

At the Kickapoo village I saw hundreds of Indians, some of whom were
living in lodges, but the majority occupied log cabins. The agent resided
in a double-hewed log house, one of the apartments of which was used as a
school for the In
dians. The agency store was opposite this structure.

All the buildings were whitewashed, and looked neat and clean. The
Kickapoos were very friendly Indians, and we spent much of our time among
them, looking about and studying their habits.

After a while we returned to our own camp, and just as we arrived there,
we saw a drove of horses--there were three or four hundred in
all--approaching from the west, over the California trail. They were
being driven by seven or eight mounted men, wearing sombreros, and
dressed in buckskin, with their lariats dangling from their saddles, and
they were followed by two or three pack-mules or horses. They went into
camp a little below us on the bank of the stream.

Presently one of the men walked out towards our camp, and my father
called to me to come and see a genuine Western man; he was about six feet
two inches tall, was well built, and had a light, springy and wiry step.
He wore a broad-brimmed California hat, and was dressed in a complete
suit of buckskin, beautifully trimmed and beaded. He saluted us, and
father invited him to sit down, which he did. After a few moments
conversation, he turned to me and said:

"Little one, I see you are working with your ponies. They are wild yet."

I had been petting Dolly and trying to break her, when my father called
me to come and look at the Californian.

"Yes," I replied, "and one of them never has been ridden."

"Well, I'll ride him for you;" and springing lightly to his feet, he
continued: "come on. Where is the animal?"

Accordingly we all went to the place where Prince was lariated. The
stranger untied the rope from the picket pin, and taking a half-loop
around the pony's nose, he jumped on his back.

In a moment he was flying over the prairie, the untamed steed rearing and
pitching every once in a while in his efforts to throw his rider; but the
man was not unseated. He was evidently an experienced horseman. I watched
his every movement. I was unconsciously taking another lesson in the
practical education which has served me s
o well through my life.

The Californian rode the pony until it was completely mastered, then
coming up to me, jumped to the ground, handed me the rope, and said:

"Here's your pony. He's all right now."

I led Prince away, while father and the stranger sat down in the shade of
a tent, and began talking about the latter's horsemanship, which father
considered very remarkable.

"Oh, that's nothing; I was raised on horseback," said the Californian; "I
ran away from home when a boy, went to sea, and finally landed in the
Sandwich Islands, where I fell in with a circus, with which I remained
two years. During that time I became a celebrated bare-back rider. I then
went to California, being attracted there by the gold excitement, the
news of which had reached the Islands. I did not go to mining, however,
but went to work as a _bocarro_-catching and breaking wild horses, great
numbers of which were roaming through California. Last summer we caught
this herd that we have brought with us across the plains, and are taking
it to the States to sell. I came with the outfit, as it gave me a good
opportunity to visit my relatives, who live at Cleveland, Ohio. I also
had an uncle over at Weston, across the river, when I ran away, and
to-morrow I am going to visit the town to see if he is there yet."

[Illustration: BILLINGS AS A BOCARRO]

"I am acquainted in Weston," said father, "and perhaps I can tell you
about your uncle. What is his name?"

"Elijah Cody," said the Californian.

"Elijah Cody!" exclaimed father, in great surprise; "why Elijah Cody is
my brother. I am Isaac Cody. Who are you?"

"My name is Horace Billings," was the reply.

"And you are my nephew. You are the son of my sister Sophia."

Both men sprang to their feet and began shaking hands in the heartiest
manner possible.

The next moment father called me, and said: "Come here, my son. Here is
some one you want to know."

As I approached he introduced us. "Horace, this is my only son. We call
him little Billy;" and turning to me said: "Billy, my boy, this is a

cousin of yours, Horace Billings, whom you've often heard me speak of."

Horace Billings had never been heard of from the day he ran away from
home, and his relatives had frequently wondered what had become of him.
His appearance, therefore, in our camp in the guise of a Californian was
somewhat of a mystery to me, and I could hardly comprehend it until I had
heard his adventurous story and learned the accidental manner in which he
and father had made themselves known to each other.

Neither father nor myself would be satisfied until he had given us a full
account of his wanderings and adventures, which were very exciting to me.

Late in the afternoon and just before the sun sank to rest, the
conversation again turned upon horses and horsemanship. Father told
Billings all about Little Gray, and his great fault of running away.
Billings laughed and said Little Gray could not run away with him.

After supper he went out to look at the horse, which was picketed in the
grass. Surveying the animal carefully, he untied the lariat and slipped a
running noose over his nose; then giving a light bound, he was on his
back in a second, and away went the horse and his rider, circling round
and round on the prairie. Billings managed him by the rope alone, and
convinced him that he was his master. When half a mile away, the horse
started for camp at the top of his speed. Billings stood straight up on
his back, and thus rode him into camp. As he passed us he jumped to the
ground, allowed the horse to run to the full length of the lariat, when
he threw him a complete somersault.

[Illustration: BILLINGS RIDING LITTLE GRAY.]

"That's a pretty good horse," said Billings.

"Yes, he's a California horse; he was captured there wild," replied
father. The exhibition of horsemanship given by Billings on this
occasion was really wonderful, and was the most skillful and daring feat
of the kind that I ever witnessed. The remainder of the evening was spent
around the camp, and Horace, who remained there, entertained us with
several interesti
ng chapters of his experiences.

Next morning he walked over to his own camp, but soon returned, mounted
on a beautiful horse, with a handsome saddle, bridle and lariat. I
thought he was a magnificent looking man. I envied his appearance, and my
ambition just then was to become as skillful a horseman as he was. He had
rigged himself out in his best style in order to make a good impression
on his uncle at Weston, whither father and I accompanied him on
horseback.

He was cordially received by Uncle Elijah, who paid him every possible
attention, and gave me a handsome saddle and bridle for my pony, and in
the evening when we rode out to the farm to see my mother and sisters, I
started ahead to show them my present, as well as to tell them who was
coming. They were delighted to see the long-lost Horace, and invited him
to remain with us. When we returned to camp next day, Horace settled up
with the proprietor of the horses, having concluded to make his home with
us for that summer at least.

Father employed him in cutting house logs and building houses, but this
work not being adapted to his tastes, he soon gave it up, and obtained
government employment in catching United States horses. During the
previous spring the government herd had stampeded from Fort Leavenworth,
and between two and three hundred of the horses were running at large
over the Kansas prairies, and had become quite wild. A reward of ten
dollars was offered for every one of the horses that was captured and
delivered to the quartermaster at Fort Leavenworth. This kind of work of
course just suited the roaming disposition of Billings, especially as it
was similar to that in which he had been engaged in California. The
horses had to be caught with a lasso, with which he was very expert. He
borrowed Little Gray, who was fleet enough for the wildest of the
runaways, and then he at once began his horse hunting.

[Illustration: EXCITING SPORT.]

Everything that he did, I wanted to do. He was a sort of hero in my eyes,
and I wished to follow in his footste
ps. At my request and with father's
consent, he took me with him, and many a wild and perilous chase he led
me over the prairie. I made rapid advances in the art of horsemanship,
for I could have had no better teacher than Horace Billings. He also
taught me how to throw the lasso, which, though it was a difficult thing
to learn, I finally became, quite skillful in.

Whenever Horace caught one of the horses which acted obstinately, and
would not be led, he immediately threw him to the ground, put a saddle
and bridle on him, and gave me Little Gray to take care of. He would then
mount the captive horse and ride him into Fort Leavenworth. I spent two
months with Horace in this way, until at last no more of the horses were
to be found. By this time I had become a remarkably good rider for a
youth, and had brought both of my ponies under easy control.

Horace returned to assist father in hauling logs, which were being used
in building a dwelling for the family who had moved over from Missouri.
One day a team did not work to suit him, and he gave the horses a cruel
beating. This greatly displeased father, who took him to task for it.
Horace's anger flew up in a moment; throwing down the lines he hurried to
the house, and began packing up his traps. That same day he hired out to
a Mormon train, and bidding us all good-bye started for Salt Lake,
driving six yokes of oxen.

CHAPTER III.

BOY DAYS IN KANSAS.

During the summer of 1853 we lived in our little log house, and father
continued to trade with the Indians, who became very friendly; hardly a
day passed without a social visit from them. I spent a great deal of time
with the Indian boys, who taught me how to shoot with the bow and arrow,
at which I became quite expert. I also took part in all their sports, and
learned to talk the Kickapoo language to some extent.

Father desired to express his friendship for these Indians, and
accordingly arranged a grand barbecue for them. He invited them all to be
present on a certain day, which they were; he then presented them wi
th
two fat beeves, to be killed and cooked in the various Indian styles.
Mother made several large boilers full of coffee, which she gave to them,
together with sugar and bread. There were about two hundred Indians in
attendance at the feast, and they all enjoyed and appreciated it. In the
evening they had one of their grand fantastic war dances, which greatly
amused me, it being the first sight of the kind I had ever witnessed.

My Uncle Elijah and quite a large number of gentlemen and ladies came
over from Weston to attend the entertainment. The Indians returned to
their homes well satisfied.

My uncle at that time owned a trading post at Silver Lake, in the
Pottawattamie country, on the Kansas river, and he arranged an excursion
to that place. Among the party were several ladies from Weston, and
father, mother and myself. Mr. McMeekan, my uncle's superintendent, who
had come to Weston for supplies, conducted the party to the post.

The trip across the prairies was a delightful one, and we remained at the
post several days. Father and one or two of the men went on to Fort Riley
to view the country, and upon their return my uncle entertained the
Pottawattamie Indians with a barbecue similar to the one given by father
to the Kickapoos.

During the latter part of the summer father filled a hay contract at Fort
Leavenworth. I passed much of my time among the campers, and spent days
and days in riding over the country with Mr. William Russell, who was
engaged in the freighting business and who seemed to take a considerable
interest in me. In this way I became acquainted with many wagon-masters,
hunters and teamsters, and learned a great deal about the business of
handling cattle and mules.

It was an excellent school for me, and I acquired a great deal of
practical knowledge, which afterwards I found to be of invaluable
service, for it was not long before I became employed by Majors &
Russell, remaining with them in different capacities, for several years.

The winter of 1853-54 was spent by father at our little pra
irie home in
cutting house logs and fence rails, which he intended to use on his farm,
as soon as the bill for the opening of the territory for settlement
should pass. This bill, which was called the "Enabling act of Kansas
territory," was passed in April, 1854, and father immediately pre-empted
the claim on which we were living.

The summer of that year was an exciting period in the history of the new
territory. Thousands and thousands of people, seeking new homes, flocked
thither, a large number of the emigrants coming over from adjoining
states. The Missourians, some of them, would come laden with bottles of
whisky, and after drinking the liquor would drive the bottles into the
ground to mark their land claims, not waiting to put up any buildings.

The Missourians, mostly, were pro-slavery men, and held enthusiastic
meetings at which they expressed their desire that Kansas should be a
slave state and did not hesitate to declare their determination to make
it so. Rively's store was the headquarters for these men, and there they
held their meetings.

[Illustration: STAKING OUT LOTS.]

At first they thought father would coincide with them on account of his
brother Elijah being a Missourian, but in this they were greatly
mistaken. At one of their gatherings, when there were about one hundred
of the reckless men present, my father, who happened also to be there,
was called upon for a speech. After considerable urging, he mounted the
box and began speaking, as nearly as I can recollect, as follows:

"Gentlemen and Fellow-citizens: You have called upon me for a speech, and
I have accepted your invitation rather against my will, as my views may
not accord with the sentiments of the rest of this assembly. My remarks,
at this time, will be brief and to the point. The question before us
to-day is, shall the territory of Kansas be a free or a slave state. The
question of slavery in itself is a broad one, and one which I do not care
at this time and place to discuss at length. I apprehend that your motive
in calling upon m
e is to have me express my sentiments in regard to the
introduction of slavery into Kansas. I shall gratify your wishes in that
respect. I was one of the pioneers of the State of Iowa, and aided in its
settlement when it was a territory, and helped to organize it as a state.

"Gentlemen, I voted that it should be a _white_ state--that <DW64>s,
whether free or slave, should never be allowed to locate within its
limits; and, gentlemen, I say to you now, and I say it boldly, that I
propose to exert all my power in making Kansas the same kind of a state
as Iowa. I believe in letting slavery remain as it now exists, and I
shall always oppose its further extension. These are my sentiments,
gentlemen and let me tell you--"

He never finished this sentence, or his speech. His expressions were
anything but acceptable to the rough-looking crowd, whose ire had been
gradually rising to fever heat, and at this point they hooted and hissed
him, and shouted, "You black abolitionist, shut up!" "Get down from that
box!" "Kill him!" "Shoot him!" and so on. Father, however, maintained his
position on the dry-goods box, notwithstanding the excitement and the
numerous invitations to step down, until a hot-headed pro-slavery man,
who was in the employ of my Uncle Elijah, crowded up and said: "Get off
that box, you black abolitionist, or I'll pull you off."

Father paid but little attention to him, and attempted to resume his
speech, intending doubtless to explain his position and endeavor to
somewhat pacify the angry crowd. But the fellow jumped up on the box, and
pulling out a huge bowie knife, stabbed father twice, who reeled and fell
to the ground. The man sprang after him, and would have ended his life
then and there, had not some of the better men in the crowd interfered in
time to prevent him from carrying out his murderous intention.

The excitement was intense, and another assault would probably have been
made on my father, had not Rively hurriedly carried him to his home.
There was no doctor within any reasonable distance, an
d father at once
requested that he be conveyed in the carriage to his brother Elijah's
house in Weston. My mother and a driver accordingly went there with him,
where his wounds were dressed. He remained in Weston several weeks before
he was able to stir about again, but he never fully recovered from the
wounds, which eventually proved the cause of his death.

[Illustration: MY FATHER STABBED]

My uncle of course at once discharged the ruffian from his employ. The
man afterwards became a noted desperado, and was quite conspicuous in the
Kansas war.

My father's indiscreet speech at Rively's brought upon our family all of
the misfortunes and difficulties which from that time on befell us. As
soon as he was able to attend to his business again, the Missourians
began to harass him in every possible way, and kept it up with hardly a
moment's cessation. Kickapoo City, as it was called, a small town that
had sprung into existence seven miles up the river from Fort
Leavenworth, became the hot-bed of the pro-slavery doctrine and the
headquarters of its advocates. Here was really the beginning of the
Kansas troubles. My father, who had shed the first blood in the cause of
the freedom of Kansas, was notified, upon his return to his trading post,
to leave the territory, and he was threatened with death by hanging or
shooting, if he dared to remain.

[Illustration: MY FATHER'S ESCAPE]

One night a body of armed men, mounted on horses, rode up to our house
and surrounded it. Knowing what they had come for, and seeing that there
would be but little chance for him in an encounter with them, father
determined to make his escape by a little stratagem. Hastily disguising
himself in mother's bonnet and shawl, he boldly walked out of the house
and proceeded towards the corn-field. The darkness proved a great
protection, as the horsemen, between whom he passed, were unable to
detect him in his disguise; supposing him to be a woman, they neither
halted him nor followed him, and he passed safely on into the
corn-field, where he conceale
d himself.

The horsemen soon dismounted and inquired for father; mother very
truthfully told them that he was away. They were not satisfied with her
statement, however, and they at once made a thorough search of the house.
They raved and swore when they could not find him, and threatened him
with death whenever they should catch him. I am sure if they had captured
him that night, they would have killed him. They carried off nearly
everything of value in the house and about the premises; then going to
the pasture, they drove off all the horses; my pony Prince afterward
succeeding in breaking away from them and came back home. Father lay
secreted in the corn-field for three days, as there were men in the
vicinity who were watching for him all the time; he finally made his
escape, and reached Fort Leavenworth in safety, whither the pro-slavery
men did not dare to follow him.

While he was staying at Fort Leavenworth, he heard that Jim Lane, Captain
Cleveland and Captain Chandler were on their way from Indiana to Kansas
with a body of Free State men, between two and three hundred strong. They
were to cross the Missouri river near Doniphan, between Leavenworth and
Nebraska City; their destination being Lawrence. Father determined to
join them, and took passage on a steamboat which was going up the river.
Having reached the place of crossing, he made himself known to the
leaders of the party, by whom he was most cordially received.

The pro-slavery men, hearing of the approach of the Free State party,
resolved to drive them out of the territory. The two parties met at
Hickory Point, where a severe battle was fought, several being killed;
the victory resulted in favor of the Free State men, who passed on to
Lawrence without much further opposition. My father finally left them,
and seeing that he could no longer live at home, went to Grasshopper
Falls, thirty-five miles west of Leavenworth; there he began the
erection of a saw-mill.

While he was thus engaged we learned from one of our hired workmen at
home, that the pr
o-slavery men had laid another plan to kill him, and
were on their way to Grasshopper Falls to carry out their intention.
Mother at once started me off on Prince to warn father of the coming
danger. When I had gone about seven miles I suddenly came upon a party of
men, who were camped at the crossing of Stranger Creek. As I passed along
I heard one of them, who recognized me, say, "That's the son of the old
abolitionist we are after;" and the next moment I was commanded to halt.

[Illustration: LIFE OR DEATH.]

Instead of stopping I instantly started my pony on a run, and on looking
back I saw that I was being pursued by three or four of the party, who
had mounted their horses, no doubt supposing that they could easily
capture me. It was very fortunate that I had heard the remark about my
being "the son of the abolitionist," for then I knew in an instant that
they were _en route_ to Grasshopper Falls to murder my father. I at once
saw the importance of my escaping and warning father in time. It was a
matter of life or death to him. So I urged Prince to his utmost speed,
feeling that upon him and myself depended a human life--a life that was
dearer to me than that of any other man in the world. I led my pursuers a
lively chase for four or five miles; finally, when they saw they could
not catch me, they returned to their camp. I kept straight on to
Grasshopper Falls, arriving there in ample time to inform him of the
approach of his old enemies.

That same night father and I rode to Lawrence, which had become the
headquarters of the Free State men. There he met Jim Lane and several
other leading characters, who were then organizing what was known as the
Lecompton Legislature.

Father was elected as a member of that body, and took an active part in
organizing the first legislature of Kansas, under Governor Reeder, who,
by the way, was a Free State man and a great friend of father's.

About this time agents were being sent to the East to induce emigrants to
locate in Kansas, and father was sent as one of these agents 
to Ohio.
After the legislature had been organized at Lawrence, he departed for
Ohio and was absent several months.

A few days after he had gone, I started for home by the way of Fort
Leavenworth, accompanied by two men, who were going to the fort on
business. As we were crossing a stream called Little Stranger, we were
fired upon by some unknown party; one of my companions, whose name has
escaped my memory, was killed. The other man and myself put spurs to our
horses and made a dash for our lives. We succeeded in making our escape,
though a farewell shot or two was sent after us. At Fort Leavenworth I
parted company with my companion, and reached home without any further
adventure.

My mother and sisters, who had not heard of my father or myself since I
had been sent to warn him of his danger, had become very anxious and
uneasy about us, and were uncertain as to whether we were dead or alive.
I received a warm welcome home, and as I entered the house, mother seemed
to read from the expression of my countenance that father was safe; of
course the very first question she asked was as to his whereabouts, and
in reply I handed her a long letter from him which explained everything.
Mother blessed me again and again for having saved his life.

While father was absent in Ohio, we were almost daily visited by some of
the pro-slavery men, who helped themselves to anything they saw fit, and
frequently compelled my mother and sisters to cook for them, and to
otherwise submit to a great deal of bad treatment. Hardly a day passed
without some of them inquiring "where the old man was," saying they would
kill him on sight. Thus we passed the summer of 1854, remaining at our
home notwithstanding the unpleasant surroundings, as mother had made up
her mind not to be driven out of the country. My uncle and other friends
advised her to leave Kansas and move to Missouri, because they did not
consider our lives safe, as we lived so near the headquarters of the
pro-slavery men, who had sworn vengeance upon father.

Nothing, however, c
ould persuade mother to change her determination. She
said that the pro-slavery men had taken everything except the land and
the little home, and she proposed to remain there as long as she lived,
happen what might. Our only friends in Salt Creek valley were two
families; one named Lawrence, the other Hathaway, and the peaceable
Indians, who occasionally visited us. My uncle, living in Missouri and
being somewhat in fear of the pro-slavery men, could not assist us much,
beyond expressing his sympathy and sending us provisions.

In the winter of 1854-55 father returned from Ohio, but as soon as his
old enemies learned that he was with us, they again compelled him to
leave. He proceeded to Lawrence, and there spent the winter in attending
the Lecompton Legislature. The remainder of the year he passed mostly at
Grasshopper Falls, where he completed his saw-mill. He occasionally
visited home under cover of the night, and in the most secret manner;
virtually carrying his life in his hand.

In the spring of this year (1855) a pro-slavery party came to our house
to search for father; not finding him, they departed, taking with them my
pony, Prince. I shall never forget the man who stole that pony. He
afterwards rose from the low level of a horse thief to the high dignity
of a justice of the peace, and I think still lives at Kickapoo. The loss
of my faithful pony nearly broke my heart and bankrupted me in business,
as I had nothing to ride.

One day, soon afterwards, I met my old friend, Mr. Russell, to whom I
related all my troubles, and his generous heart was touched by my story.
"Billy, my boy," said he, "cheer up, and come to Leavenworth, and I'll
employ you. I'll give you twenty-five dollars a month to herd cattle."

I accepted the offer, and heartily thanking him, hurried home to obtain
mother's consent. She refused to let me go, and all my pleading was in
vain. Young as I was--being then only in my tenth year, my ideas and
knowledge of the world, however, being far in advance of my age--I
determined to run away fr
om home. Mr. Russell's offer of twenty-five
dollars a month was a temptation which I could not resist. The
remuneration for my services seemed very large to me, and I accordingly
stole away and walked to Leavenworth.

Mr. Badger, one of Mr. Russell's superintendents, immediately sent me
out, mounted on a little gray mule, to herd cattle. I worked at this for
two months, and then came into Leavenworth. I had not been home during
all this time, but mother had learned from Mr. Russell where I was, and
she no longer felt uneasy, as he had advised her to let me remain in his
employ. He assured her that I was all right, and said that when the herd
came in he would allow me to make a visit home.

Upon my arrival in Leavenworth with the herd of cattle, Mr. Russell
instructed his book-keeper, Mr. Byers, to pay me my wages, amounting to
fifty dollars. Byers gave me the sum all in half-dollar pieces. I put the
bright silver coins into a sack, which I tied to my mule, and started
home, thinking myself a _millionaire_. This money I gave to mother, who
had already forgiven me for running away.

Thus began my service for the firm of Russell & Majors, afterwards
Russell, Majors & Waddell, with whom I spent seven years of my life in
different capacities--such as cavallard-driver, wagon-master, pony
express rider and driver. I continued to work for Mr. Russell during
the rest of the summer of 1855, and in the winter of 1855-56 I
attended school.

Father, who still continued to secretly visit home, was anxious to have
his children receive as much of an education as possible, under the
adverse circumstances surrounding us, and he employed a teacher, Miss
Jennie Lyons, to come to our house and teach. My mother was well
educated--more so than my father--and it used to worry her a great deal
because her children could not receive better educational advantages.
However, the little school at home got along exceedingly well, and we all
made rapid advances in our studies, as Miss Lyons was an excellent
teacher. She afterwards married a gen
tleman named Hook, who became the
first mayor of Cheyenne, where she now lives.

The Kansas troubles reached their highest pitch in the spring of 1856,
and our family continued to be harassed as much as ever by our old
enemies. I cannot now recollect one-half of the serious difficulties that
we had to encounter; but I very distinctly remember one incident well
worth relating. I came home one night on a visit from Leavenworth, being
accompanied by a fellow-herder--a young man. During the night we heard a
noise outside of the house, and soon the dogs began barking loudly. We
looked out to ascertain the cause of the disturbance, and saw that the
house was surrounded by a party of men. Mother had become accustomed to
such occurrences, and on this occasion she seemed to be master of the
situation from the start. Opening a window, she coolly sang out, in a
firm tone of voice: "Who are you? What do you want here?"

"We are after that old abolition husband of yours," was the answer from
one of the crowd.

"He is not in this house, and has not been here for a long time," said
my mother.

"That's a lie! We know he is in the house, and we are bound to have him,"
said the spokesman of the party.

I afterwards learned they had mistaken the herder, who had ridden home
with me, for my father for whom they had been watching.

"My husband is not at home," emphatically repeated my heroic mother--for
if there ever was a heroine she certainly was one--"but the house is full
of armed men," continued she, "and I'll give you just two minutes to get
out of the yard; if you are not out by the end of that time I shall order
them to fire on you."

She withdrew from the window for a few moments and hurriedly instructed
the herder to call aloud certain names--any that he might think of--just
as if the house was full of men to whom he was giving orders. He followed
her directions to the very letter. He could not have done it any better
had he rehearsed the act a dozen times.

The party outside heard him, as it was intended they should, and th
ey
supposed that my mother really had quite a force at her command. While
this little by play was being enacted, she stepped to the open window
again and said:

"John Green, you and your friends had better go away or the men will
surely fire on you."

At this, point the herder, myself and my sisters commenced stamping on
the floor in imitation of a squad of soldiers, and the herder issued his
orders in a loud voice to his imaginary troops, who were apparently
approaching the window preparatory to firing a volley at the enemy. This
little stratagem proved eminently successful. The cowardly villains began
retreating, and then my mother fired an old gun into the air which
greatly accelerated their speed, causing them to break and run. They soon
disappeared from view in the darkness.

The next morning we accidentally discovered that they had intended to
blow up the house. Upon going into the cellar which had been left open on
one side, we found two kegs of powder together with a fuse secreted
there. It only required a lighted match to have sent us into eternity. My
mother's presence of mind, which had never yet deserted her in any trying
situation, had saved our lives.

Shortly after this affair, I came home again on a visit and found father
there sick with fever, and confined to his bed. One day my old enemy rode
up to the house on my pony Prince, which he had stolen from me.

"What is your business here to-day?" asked mother.

"I am looking for the old man," he replied. "I am going to search the
house, and if I find him I am going to kill him. Here, you girls," said
he, addressing my sisters, "get me some dinner, and get it quick, too,
for I am as hungry as a wolf."

"Very well; pray be seated, and we'll get you something to eat," said one
of my sisters, without exhibiting the least sign of fear.

He sat down, and while they were preparing a dinner for him, he took out
a big knife and sharpened it on a whetstone, repeating his threat of
searching the house and killing my father.

I had witnessed the whole proceedin
g, and heard the threats, and I
determined that the man should never go up stairs where father was lying
in bed, unable to rise. Taking a double-barreled pistol which I had
recently bought, I went to the head of the stairs, cocked the weapon, and
waited for the ruffian to come up, determined, that the moment he set
foot on the steps I would kill him. I was relieved, however, from the
stern necessity, as he did not make his appearance.

The brute was considerably intoxicated when he came to the house, and the
longer he sat still the more his brain became muddled with liquor, and he
actually forgot what he had come there for. After he had eaten his
dinner, he mounted his horse and rode off, and it was a fortunate thing
for him that he did.

Father soon recovered and returned to Grasshopper Falls, while I resumed
my cattle herding.

CHAPTER IV.

YOUTHFUL EXPERIENCES.

In July, 1856, the people living in the vicinity of our home--feeling the
necessity of more extensive educational facilities for their children
than they had yet had--started a subscription school in a little log
cabin on the bank of the creek, which for a while proved quite a success.
My mother being very anxious to have me attend this school, I acceded to
her oft-repeated wishes, and returning home, I became a pupil of the
institution. I made considerable progress in my studies--such as they
were--and was getting along very well in every other respect, until I
became involved in my first love affair.

Like all school-boys, I had a sweetheart with whom I was "dead in
love"--in a juvenile way. Her name was Mary Hyatt. Of course I had a
rival, Stephen Gobel, a boy about three years my senior--the "bully"
of the school. He was terribly jealous, and sought in every way to
revenge himself upon me for having won the childish affections of
sweet little Mary.

The boys of the school used to build play-houses or arbors among the
trees and bushes for their sweethearts. I had built a play-house for
Mary, when Steve, as we called him, leveled it to the ground. We

immediately had a very lively fight, in which I got badly beaten. The
teacher heard of our quarrel and whipped us both. This made matters worse
than ever, as I had received two thrashings to Steve's one; I smothered
my angry feelings as much as possible under the humiliating
circumstances, and during the afternoon recess built another play-house,
thinking that Gobel would not dare to destroy a second one; but I was
mistaken, for he pushed the whole structure over at the first
opportunity. I came up to him just as he finished the job, and said:

"Steve Gobel, the next time you do that, I'll hurt you." And I meant it,
too; but he laughed and called me names.

[Illustration: TWO TO ONE.]

At recess, next morning, I began the construction of still another
playhouse, and when I had it about two-thirds finished, Steve slyly
sneaked up to the spot and tipped the whole thing over. I jumped for him
with the quickness of a cat, and clutching him by the throat for a moment
I had the advantage of him. But he was too strong for me, and soon had me
on the ground and was beating me severely. While away from home I had
someway come into possession of a very small pocket dagger, which I had
carried about with me in its sheath, using it in place of a knife. During
the struggle this fell from my pocket, and my hand by accident rested
upon it as it lay upon the ground. Exasperated beyond measure at Steve's
persistence in destroying my play-houses, and smarting under his blows, I
forgot myself for the moment, grasped the dagger and unthinkingly thrust
it into Steve's thigh. Had it been larger it would probably have injured
him severely; as it was, it made a small wound, sufficient to cause the
blood to flow freely and Steve to cry out in affright:

"I am killed! O, I am killed!"

The school children all rushed to the spot and were terrified at
the scene.

"What's the matter?" asked one.

"Bill Cody has killed Steve Gobel," replied another.

The uproar reached the teacher's ear, and I now saw him approaching, with
vengeance in his ey
e and a big club in his hand. I knew that he was
coming to interview _me_. I was dreadfully frightened at what I had done,
and undecided whether to run away or to remain and take the consequences;
but the sight of that flag-staff in the school teacher's hand was too
much for me. I no longer hesitated, but started off like a deer. The
teacher followed in hot pursuit, but soon became convinced that he could
not catch me, and gave up the chase. I kept on running, until I reached
one of Russell, Major & Waddell's freight trains which I had noticed
going over the hill for the west. Fortunately for me I knew the
wagon-master, John Willis, and as soon as I recovered my breath I told
him what had happened.

"Served him right, Billy," said he, "and what's more, we'll go over and
clean out the teacher."

"Oh, no; don't do that," said I, for I was afraid that I might fall
into the hands of the wounded boy's friends, who I knew would soon be
looking for me.

"Well, Billy, come along with me; I am bound for Fort Kearney; the trip
will take me forty days. I want you for a cavallard driver."

"All right," I replied, "but I must go home and tell mother about it, and
get some clothes."

"Well then, to-night after we make our camp, I'll go back with you."

The affray broke up the school for the rest of the day as the excitement
was too much for the children. Late in the afternoon, after the train had
moved on some considerable distance, I saw Steve's father, his brother
Frank, and one of the neighbors rapidly approaching.

"Mr. Willis, there comes old Gobel, with Frank and somebody else, and
they are after me--what am I going to do?" I asked.

"Let 'em come," said he, "they can't take you if I've got anything to say
about it, and I rather think I have. Get into one of the wagons--keep
quiet and lay low. I'll manage this little job. Don't you fret a bit
about it."

I obeyed his orders and felt much easier.

Old Gobel, Frank and the neighbor soon came up and inquired for me.

"He's around here somewhere," said Mr. Willis.

"We want
<|endoftext|>
Produced by PG Distributed Proofreaders

KLONDYKE NUGGETS

A Brief Description of the Great Gold Regions in the Northwest
Territories and Alaska

BY

JOSEPH LADUE

Founder of Dawson City, N.W.T.

Explorer, Miner and Prospector

September, 1897

PREFACE.

The extraordinary excitement arising from the reports of the discovery
of Gold in the Klondyke region in the great Canadian Northwest is not
surprising to one who, through personal residence and practical
experience, is thoroughly conversant with the locality.

Having recently returned for a temporary stay, after a somewhat
successful experience, I have received applications for information in
numbers so great that it far exceeds my ability and the time at my
disposal to make direct replies.

I have therefore arranged with the American Technical Book Co., 45 Vesey
Street, New York City, for the issue of this brief description,
preparatory to the publication of my larger book, "Klondyke Facts," a
book of 224 pages, with illustrations and maps, in which will be found a
vast fund of practical information, statistics, and all particulars
sought for by those who intend emigrating to this wonderful country.

It is well-nigh impossible to tell the truth of these recent discoveries
of gold, but while I can only briefly describe the territory in this
small work, it shall be my endeavor to give the intending prospector,
in the large work above mentioned, as many facts as possible, and these
may thoroughly be relied upon, as from one who has lived continuously in
those regions since 1882.

JOSEPH LADUE.

 * * * * *

KLONDYKE NUGGETS

CHAPTER I.

KLONDYKE.

Klondyke! The word and place that has startled the civilized world is
to-day a series of thriving mining camps on the Yukon River and its
tributaries in the Canadian Northwest Territories.

Prior to August 24, 1896, this section of the country had never been
heard of. It was on this day that a man named Henderson discovered the
first gold.

On the first day of the following month the writer commenced erecting
the first ho
use in this region and called the place Dawson City, now the
central point of the mining camps.

Dawson City is now the most important point in the new mining regions.
Its population in June, 1897; exceeded 4,000; by June next it cannot be
less than 25,000. It has a saw-mill, stores, churches, of the
Presbyterian, Baptist, Methodist and Roman Catholic denominations. It is
the headquarters of the Canadian Northwest Mounted Police, _and perfect
law and order is maintained_.

It is at Dawson City that the prospector files his claims with the
Government Gold Commissioner, in the recording offices.

Dawson City faces on one of the banks of the Yukon River, and now
occupies about a mile of the bank. It is at the junction of the Klondyke
River with the Yukon River. It is here where the most valuable mining
claims are being operated on a scale of profit that the world has
hitherto never known. The entire country surrounding is teeming with
mineral wealth.

Copper, silver and coal can be found in large quantities, but little or
no attention is now being paid to these valuable minerals, as every one
is engaged in gold-hunting and working the extraordinary placer mining
claims already located.

The entire section is given up to placer mining. Very few claims had
been filed for quartz mining. The fields of gold will not be exhausted
in the near future. No man can tell what the end will be. From January
to April, 1897, about $4,000,000 were taken out of the few placer claims
then being worked. This was done in a territory not exceeding forty
square miles. All these claims are located on Klondyke River and the
little tributaries emptying into it, and the districts are known as Big
Bonanza, Gold Bottom and Honker.

I have asked old and experienced miners at Dawson City who mined
through California in Bonanza days, and some who mined in Australia,
what they thought of the Klondyke region, and their reply has
invariably been, "The world never saw so vast and rich a find of gold as
we are working now."

Dawson City is destined to 
be the greatest mining camp in the history of
mining operations.

CHAPTER II.

KLONDYKE FACTS.

There is a great popular error in reference to the climate of the gold
regions. Many reports have appeared in the newspapers which are
misleading. It has been even stated that the cold is excessive almost
throughout the year. This is entirely a mis-statement.

I have found I have suffered more from winter cold in Northern New York
than I ever did in Alaska or the Canadian Northwest.

I have chopped wood in my shirt-sleeves in front of my door at Dawson
City when the thermometer was 70 degrees below zero, and I suffered no
inconvenience. We account for this from the fact that the air is very
dry. It is a fact that you do not feel this low temperature as much as
you would 15 below zero in the East.

We usually have about three feet of snow in winter and it is as dry as
sawdust.

As we have no winter thaws no crust forms on the snow, therefore we
travel from the various points that may be necessary with snowshoes.
These may be purchased from the Indians in the vicinity of Dawson City
at from $5.00 to $10.00 per pair according to the quality.

The winter days are very short. In this region there are only two hours
from sunrise to sunset. The sun rises and sets away in the south but
there is no pitch darkness.

The twilight lasts all night and the Northern Lights are very common.
Then in summer it is exactly the other way. The day there in July is
about twenty hours long. The sun rising and setting in the north. A
great deal has been said about the short seasons, but as a matter of
fact a miner can work 12 months in the year when in that region.

Spring opens about May 1st and the ice commences to break up about that
time. The Yukon River is generally clear of ice about May 15. The best
part of the miner's work commences then and lasts till about October
1st.

The winter commences in October but the miner keeps on working through
the winter. The rainy season commences in the latter part of August and
lasts two or three week
s.

A fall of two feet of snow is considered heavy.

There is a wide difference in the quantity of snow that accumulates on
the coast and the ranges in the interior where the principal mining
claims are located.

While the fall of snow on the coast is heavy the depth of snow as far
down as the Yukon, Stewart and Klondyke rivers is inconsiderable.

In my new work on this territory entitled "Klondyke Facts" I deal more
largely on the climate of this region.

There are still good diggings at Circle City in Alaska, but nearly all
the miners have left for Klondyke, not being satisfied with the pay dirt
which they were working. I know at least 20 good claims in Circle City.

Fort Cudahy, or as it is sometimes called Forty Mile Creek, is now
practically exhausted as a mining camp, and the miners have left for
other diggings.

There will undoubtedly be new and valuable diggings discovered very
quickly along this region as it is certain that this enormous territory
is rich in gold-bearing districts.

The entire country is teeming with mineral wealth.

When mining operations commence on coal it will be specially valuable
for steamers on the various rivers and greatly assist transportation
facilities.

In the next few years there will certainly be recorded the most
marvellous discoveries in this territory, usually thought to be only a
land of snow and ice and fit only to be classed with the Arctic regions.

It is marvellous to state that for some years past we have been finding
gold in occasional places in this territory, but from the poverty of the
people no effort was made to prospect among the places reported.

It is my belief that the greatest finds of gold will be made in this
territory. It is safe to say that not 2 per cent. of all the gold
discovered so far has been on United States soil.

The great mass of the work has been done on the Northwest territory,
which is under the Canadian Government.

It is possible however that further discoveries will be made on American
soil, but it is my opinion that the most valuabl
e discoveries will be
further east and south of the present claims, and would advise
prospectors to work east and south of Klondyke.

THE YUKON RIVER AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.

"What the Amazon is to South America, the Mississippi to the central
portion of the United States, the Yukon is to Alaska. It is a great
inland highway, which will make it possible for the explorer to
penetrate the mysterious fastnesses of that still unknown region. The
Yukon has its source in the Rocky Mountains of British Columbia and the
Coast Range Mountains in southeastern Alaska, about 125 miles from the
city of Juneau, which is the present metropolis of Alaska. But it is
only known as the Yukon River at the point where the Pelly River, the
branch that heads in British Columbia, meets with the Lewes River, which
heads in southeastern Alaska. This point of confluence is at Fort
Selkirk, in the Northwest Territory, about 125 miles south-east of the
Klondyke. The Yukon proper is 2,044 miles in length. From Fort Selkirk
it flows north-west 400 miles, just touching the Arctic circle; thence
southward for a distance of 1,600 miles, where it empties into Behring
Sea. It drains more than 600,000 square miles of territory, and
discharges one-third more water into Behring Sea than does the
Mississippi into the Gulf of Mexico. At its mouth it is sixty miles
wide. About 1,500 miles inland it widens out from one to ten miles. A
thousand islands send the channel in as many different directions. Only
natives who are thoroughly familiar with the river are entrusted with
the piloting of boats up the stream during the season of low water. Even
at the season of high water it is still so shallow as not to be
navigable anywhere by seagoing vessels, but only by flat-bottomed boats
with a carrying capacity of four to five hundred tons. The draft of
steamers on the Yukon should not exceed three and a half feet.

"The Yukon district, which is within the jurisdiction of the Canadian
Government and in which the bulk of the gold has been found, has a total
area, app
roximately, of 192,000 square miles, of which 150,768 square
miles are included in the watershed of the Yukon. Illustrating this, so
that it may appeal with definiteness to the reader, it may be said that
this territory is greater by 71,100 square miles than the area of Great
Britain, and is nearly three times that of all the New England States
combined.

"A further fact must be borne in mind. The Yukon River is absolutely
closed to navigation during the winter months. In the winter the
frost-king asserts his dominion and locks up all approaches with
impenetrable ice, and the summer is of the briefest. It endures only for
twelve to fourteen weeks, from about the first of June to the middle of
September. Then an unending panorama of extraordinary picturesqueness is
unfolded to the voyager. The banks are fringed with flowers, carpeted
with the all-pervading moss or tundra. Birds countless in numbers and of
infinite variety in plumage, sing out a welcome from every treetop.
Pitch your tent where you will in midsummer, a bed of roses, a clump of
poppies and a bunch of bluebells will adorn your camping. But high above
this paradise of almost tropical exuberance giant glaciers sleep in the
summit of the mountain wall, which rises up from a bed of roses. By
September everything is changed. The bed of roses has disappeared before
the icy breath of the winter king, which sends the thermometer down
sometimes to seventy degrees below freezing point. The birds fly to the
southland and the bear to his sleeping chamber in the mountains. Every
stream becomes a sheet of ice, mountain and valley alike are covered
with snow till the following May.

"That part of the basin of the Yukon in which gold in greater or less
quantities has actually been found lies partly in Alaska and partly in
British territory. It covers an area of some 50,000 square miles. But so
far the infinitely richest spot lies some one hundred miles east of the
American boundary, in the region drained by the Klondyke and its
tributaries. This is some three hundre
d miles by river from Circle City.

"We have described some of the beauties of the Yukon basin in the summer
season, but this radiant picture has its obverse side.

"Horseflies, gnats and mosquitoes add to the joys of living throughout
the entire length of the Yukon valley. The horsefly is larger and more
poignantly assertive than the insect which we know by that name. In
dressing or undressing, it has a pleasant habit of detecting any bare
spot in the body and biting out a piece of flesh, leaving a wound which
a few days later looks like an incipient boil. Schwatka reports that one
of his party, so bitten was completely disabled for a week. 'At the
moment of infliction.' he adds, 'it was hard to believe that one was not
disabled for life.'

"The mosquitoes according to the same authority are equally distressing.
They are especially fond of cattle, but without any reciprocity of
affection. 'According to the general terms of the survival of the
fittest and the growth of muscles most used to the detriment of others,'
says the lieutenant in an unusual burst of humor, 'a band of cattle
inhabiting this district, in the far future, would be all tail and no
body, unless the mosquitoes should experience a change of numbers.'"

I am indebted to Wm. Ogilvie, Esq., for the following valuable
information relative to The Yukon District.

"The Yukon District comprises, speaking generally, that part of the
Northwest Territories lying west of the water shed of the Mackenzie
River; most of it is drained by the Yukon River and its tributaries. It
covers a distance of about 650 miles along the river from the coast
range of mountains.

"In 1848 Campbell established Fort Selkirk at the confluence of the
Pelly and Lewes Rivers; it was plundered and destroyed in 1852 by the
Coast Indians, and only the ruins now exist of what was at one time the
most important post of the Hudson's Bay Company to the west of the Rocky
Mountains in the far north. In 1869 the Hudson's Bay Company's officer
was expelled from Fort Yukon by the United States 
Government, they
haying ascertained by astronomical observations that the post was not
located in British territory. The officer thereupon ascended the
Porcupine to a point which was supposed to be within British
jurisdiction, where he established Rampart House; but in 1890 Mr. J.H.
Turner of the United States Coast Survey found it to be 20 miles within
the lines of the United States. Consequently in 1891 the post was moved
20 miles further up the river to be within British territory.

"The next people to enter the country for trading purposes were Messrs.
Harper and McQuestion. They have been trading in the country since 1873
and have occupied numerous posts all along the river, the greater number
of which have been abandoned. Mr. Harper is now located as a trader at
Fort Selkirk, with Mr. Joseph Ladue under the firm name of Harper &
Ladue, and Mr. McQuestion is in the employ of the Alaska Commercial
Company at Circle City, which is the distributing point for the vast
regions surrounding Birch Creek, Alaska. In 1882 a number of miners
entered the Yukon country by the Taiya Pass; it is still the only route
used to any extent by the miners, and is shorter than the other passes
though not the lowest. In 1883 Lieutenant Schwatka crossed this same
pass and descended the Lewes and Yukon Rivers to the ocean.

"The explorers found that in proximity to the boundary line there
existed extensive and valuable placer gold mines, in which even then as
many as three hundred miners were at work. Mr. Ogilvie determined, by a
series of lunar observations, the point at which the Yukon River is
intersected by the 141st meridian, and marked the same on the ground. He
also determined and marked the point at which the western affluent of
the Yukon, known as Forty Mile Creek, is crossed by the same meridian
line, that point being situated at a distance of about twenty-three
miles from the mouth of the creek. This survey proved that the place
which had been selected as the most convenient, owing to the physical
conformation of the regio
n, from which to distribute the supplies
imported for the various mining camps, and from which to conduct the
other business incident to the mining operations--a place situate at the
confluence of the Forty Mile Creek and the Yukon, and to which the name
of Fort Cudahy has been given--is well within Canadian territory. The
greater proportion of the mines then being worked Mr. Ogilvie found to
be on the Canadian side of the international boundary line, but he
reported the existence of some mining fields to the south, the exact
position of which with respect to the boundary he did not have the
opportunity to fix.

"The number of persons engaged in mining in the locality mentioned has
steadily increased year by year since the date of Mr. Ogilvie's survey,
and it is estimated that at the commencement of the past season not less
than one thousand men were so employed. Incident to this mineral
development there must follow a corresponding growth in the volume of
business of all descriptions, particularly the importation of dutiable
goods, and the occupation of tracts of the public lands for mining
purposes which according to the mining regulations are subject to the
payment of certain prescribed dues and charges. The Alaska Commercial
Company, for many years subsequent to the retirement of the Hudson's Bay
Company, had a practical monopoly of the trade of the Yukon, carrying
into the country and delivering at various points along the river,
without regard to the international boundary line or the customs laws
and regulations of Canada, such articles of commerce as were required
for the prosecution of the fur trade and latterly of placer mining,
these being the only two existing industries. With the discovery of
gold, however, came the organization of a competing company known as the
North American Transportation and Trading Company, having its
headquarters in Chicago and its chief trading and distributing post at
Cudahy. This company has been engaged in this trade for over three
years, and during the past season despat
ched two ocean steamers from San
Francisco to St. Michael, at the mouth of the Yukon, the merchandise
from which was, at the last mentioned point, transhipped into river
steamers and carried to points inland, but chiefly to the company's
distributing centre within Canadian territory. Importations of
considerable value, consisting of the immediately requisite supplies of
the miners, and their tools, also reach the Canadian portion of the
Yukon District from Juneau, in the United States, by way of the Taiya
Inlet, the mountain passes, and the chain of waterways leading therefrom
to Cudahy. Upon none of these importations had any duty been collected,
except a sum of $3,248.80 paid to Inspector Constantine in 1894, by the
North American Transportation and Trading Company and others, and it is
safe to conclude, especially when it is remembered that the country
produces none of the articles consumed within it except fresh meat, that
a large revenue was being lost to the public exchequer under the then
existing conditions.

"For the purpose of ascertaining officially and authoritatively the
condition of affairs to which the correspondence referred to in the
next preceding paragraph relates, the Honorable the President of the
Privy Council, during the spring of 1894, despatched Inspector Charles
Constantine, of the Northwest Mounted Police Force, accompanied by
Sergeant Brown, to Fort Cudahy and the mining camps in its vicinity. The
report made by Mr. Constantine on his return, established the
substantial accuracy of the representations already referred to. The
value of the total output of gold for the season of 1894 he estimated at
$300,000.

"The facts recited clearly establish--first, that the time had arrived
when it became the duty of the Government of Canada to make more
efficient provision for the maintenance of order, the enforcement of the
laws, and the administration of justice in the Yukon country, especially
in that section of it in which placer mining for gold is being
prosecuted upon such an extensive scale
, situated near to the boundary
separating the Northwest Territories from the possessions of the United
States in Alaska; and, second, that while such measures as were
necessary to that end were called for in the interests of humanity, and
particularly for the security and safety of the lives and property of
the Canadian subjects of Her Majesty resident in that country who are
engaged in legitimate business pursuits, it was evident that the revenue
justly due to the Government of Canada, under its customs, excise and
land laws, and which would go a long way to pay the expenses of
government, was being lost for the want of adequate machinery for its
collection.

"Accordingly in June last a detachment[1] of twenty members of the
Mounted Police Force including officers was detailed for service in
that portion of the Northwest Territories. The officer in command, in
addition to the magisterial and other duties he is required to perform
by virtue of his office and under instructions from the Department of
Mounted Police, was duly authorized to represent where necessary, and
until other arrangements can be made, all the departments of the
government having interests in that region. Particularly he is
authorized to perform the duties of Dominion lands agent, collector of
customs, and collector of inland revenue. At the same time instructions
were given Mr. William Ogilvie, the surveyor referred to as having, with
Dr. Dawson, been entrusted with the conduct of the first government
expedition to the Yukon, to proceed again to that district for the
purpose of continuing and extending the work of determining the 141st
meridian, of laying out building lots and mining claims, and generally
of performing such duties as may be entrusted to him from time to time.
Mr. Ogilvie's qualifications as a surveyor, and his previous experience
as explorer of this section of the Northwest, peculiarly fit him for the
task.

[Footnote 1: The detachment was made up as follows:--Inspector C.
Constantine, Officer Commanding Yukon Detachment N.W
.M. Police;
Inspector, D.A.E. Strickland; Assistant Surgeon, A.E. Wills; 2 Staff
Sergeants; 2 Corporals; 13 Constables.]

"As it appears quite certain, from the report made by Mr. Ogilvie on his
return to Ottawa, in 1889, and from the report of Mr. Constantine, that
the operations of the miners are being conducted upon streams which have
their sources in the United States Territory of Alaska, and flow into
Canada on their way to join the Yukon, and as doubtless some of the
placer diggings under development are situated on the United States side
of the boundary it is highly desirable, both for the purpose of settling
definitely to which country any land occupied for mining or other
purposes actually belongs, and in order that the jurisdiction of the
courts and officers of the United States and Canada, for both civil and
criminal purposes, may be established, that the determination of the
141st meridian west of Greenwich from the point of its intersection
with the Yukon, as marked by Mr. Ogilvie in 1887-88, for a considerable
distance south of the river, and possibly also for some distance to the
north, should be proceeded with at once. Mr. Ogilvie's instructions
require him to go on with the survey with all convenient speed, but in
order that this work may be effective for the accomplishment of the
object in view the co-operation of the Government of the United States
is necessary. Correspondence is in progress through the proper
authorities with a view to obtaining this co-operation. It may be
mentioned that a United States surveyor has also determined the points
at which the Yukon River and Forty Mile Creek are intersected by the
141st meridian."

ROUTES, DISTANCES, AND TRANSPORTATION.

After considerable experience I have decided that the best route for a
man to take to the gold regions is from Seattle, Washington, to Juneau,
Alaska, and then to Dawson City, by the pass and waterways, and I will
therefore describe this route more in detail than any of the others.

I am devoting a special chapter to the outfit f
or travellers, and will
therefore deal in this chapter with the route only.

The traveller having paid his fare to Seattle should on arrival there
have not less than $500. This is the minimum sum necessary to pay his
fare from Seattle to Juneau, purchase his outfit and supplies for one
year and pay his necessary expenses in the gold region for that length
of time.

I think it deplorable that so many are starting at this time for the
gold-fields. I do not recommend starting before March 15. I will return
at that time to my claims on the Klondyke, if it were wise to go sooner,
I should certainly go.

The reason March 15 is best is that the season is better then. If a man
has only, say, $500 and wants to do his own packing over the Taiya Pass,
it gives him time to do it by starting March 15, as he will then be in
Juneau April 1st. I fear a great deal of hardship for those who started
out so as to reach Juneau for winter travel.

Of course while I say $500 is sufficient to go to Dawson City, a man
should take $1,000 or even more if possible as he will have many
opportunities to invest the surplus.

While prices will undoubtedly advance at Dawson City owing to the large
influx of people, I do not think the advance will be excessive. It has
never been the policy of the two trading companies to take advantage of
the miners.

The traveller having arrived in Juneau from Seattle, a journey of 725
miles by water, immediately purchases his complete outfit as described
in another chapter. He then loses no time in leaving Juneau for Dyea,
taking a small steamboat which runs regularly to this port via the Lynn
Canal. Dyea has recently been made a customs port of entry and the head
of navigation this side of the Taiya Pass. The distance between Juneau
and Dyea is about one hundred miles.

From Dyea, which is the timber-line, he packs his outfit to the foot of
the Taiya Pass--the length of which to the summit is about 15 miles. He
must now carry his outfit up the Pass, which he generally does in two or
more trips according to the
 weight of his outfit, unless he is able to
hire Indians or mules; but so far there are very few Indians to be hired
and still fewer mules.

He now starts for Lake Lindeman from the head of the Pass, a distance of
eight miles--the distance from Dyea to Lake Lindeman being 31 miles.

At Lake Lindeman he commences to make his boat, for which he has brought
the proper supplies in his outfit, with the exception of the timber,
which he finds at Lake Lindeman. He spends one week at Lake Lindeman
making his boat and getting ready for the long trip down the waterways
to Dawson City, the heart of the Klondyke region. The trip through Lake
Lindeman is short, the lake being only five miles long. At the foot of
the lake he must portage to Lake Bennet, the portage however being very
short, less than a mile.

Lake Bennet is 28 miles long, while going through this lake the
traveller crosses the boundary between British Columbia and the
Northwest Territory.

After going down Lake Bennet the traveller comes to Caribou
Crossing--about four miles long, which takes him to Lake Tagish, twenty
miles in length. After leaving Tagish he finds himself in Mud or Marsh
Lake, 24 miles long, then into the Lynx River, on which he continues for
27 miles till he comes to Miles Canyon, five-eighths of a mile long.

Immediately on leaving Miles Canyon he has three miles of what is called
bad river work, which, while not hazardous, is dangerous from the swift
current and from being very rocky. Great care has to be taken in going
down this part of the river.

He now finds himself in White Horse Canyon the rapids of which are
three-eighths of a mile in length and one of the most dangerous places
on the trip, a man is here guarded by a sign, "Keep a good lookout."

No stranger or novice should try to run the White Horse Rapids alone in
a boat. He should let his boat drop down the river guided by a rope with
which he has provided himself in his outfit and which should be 150 feet
long. It would be better if the traveller should portage here, the
miners
 having constructed a portage road on the west side and put down
roller-ways in some places on which they roll their boats over. They
have also made some windlasses with which they haul their boat up the
hill till they are at the foot of the canyon. The White Horse Canyon is
very rocky and dangerous and the current extremely swift.

After leaving the White Horse Canyon he goes down the river to the head
of Lake Labarge, a distance of 14 miles. He can sit down and steer with
the current, as he is going down the stream all the way. It is for this
reason that in returning from the diggings he should take another
route, of which he will get full particulars before leaving Dawson;
therefore I do not take the time to give a full description of the
return trip via the Yukon to St. Michael. He now goes through Lake
Labarge--for 31 miles--till he strikes the Lewes River, this taking him
down to Hootalinqua. He is now in the Lewes River which takes him for 25
miles to Big Salmon River and from Big Salmon River 45 miles to Little
Salmon River--the current all this time taking him down at the rate of
five miles an hour. Of course in the canyons it is very much swifter.

The Little Salmon River takes him to Five Finger Rapids, a distance of
one hundred and twenty miles. In the Five Finger Rapids the voyage
should be made on the right side of the river, going with the current.
These rapids are considered safe by careful management, but the novice
will already have had sufficient experience in guiding his boat before
reaching them.

From Five Finger Rapids the traveller goes six miles below, down the
Lewes, to the Rink Rapids. On going through the Rink Rapids, he
continues on the Lewes River to Fort Selkirk, the trading post of Harper
and Ladue, where the Pelly and Lewes, at their junction, form the
headwaters of the Yukon. You are now at the head of the Yukon River, and
the worst part of your trip is over.

You now commence to go down the Yukon, and after a trip of ninety-eight
miles, you are in the White River. You keep on th
e White River for ten
miles, to the Stewart River, and then twenty-five miles to Fort Ogilvie.
You are now only forty miles from Dawson City.

Your journey is now almost ended. After a forty-mile trip on the Yukon,
you arrive at Dawson City, where the Klondyke empties in the Yukon.

All through this trip you have been going through a mountainous country,
the trees there being pine, a small amount of spruce, cottonwood and
birch. You have not seen much game, if any, as it is growing scarce
along that line of river, and very hard to find. The traveller had
therefore better make preparation to depend on the provisions he has
brought with him. If he has stopped to fish, he may have been successful
in catching whitefish, grayling and lake trout, along the lakes and
rivers.

The total journey from Seattle to Dawson City has taken about two
months. In connection with this trip from Juneau to Dawson City, it is
perhaps better to give the reader the benefit of the trip of Mr. William
Stewart, who writes from Lake Lindeman, May 31st, 1897, as follows:--

"We arrived here at the south end of the lake last night by boat. We
have had an awful time of it. The Taiya Pass is not a pass at all, but a
climb right over the mountains. We left Juneau on Thursday, the
twentieth, on a little boat smaller than the ferry at Ottawa. There were
over sixty aboard, all in one room about ten by fourteen. There was
baggage piled up in one end so that the floor-space was only about eight
by eight. We went aboard about three o'clock in the afternoon and went
ashore at Dyea at seven o'clock Friday night. We got the Indians to pack
all our stuff up to the summit, but about fifty pounds each; I had
forty-eight pounds and my gun.

"We left Dyea, an Indian village, Sunday, but only got up the river one
mile. We towed all the stuff up the river seven miles, and then packed
it to Sheep Camp. We reached Sheep Camp about seven o'clock at night, on
the Queen's Birthday. A beautiful time we had, I can tell you, climbing
hills with fifty pounds on our backs
. It would not be so bad if we could
strap it on rightly.

"We left Sheep Camp next morning at four o'clock, and reached the summit
at half-past seven. It was an awful climb--an angle of about fifty-five
degrees. We could keep our hands touching the trail all the way up. It
was blowing and snowing up there. We paid off the Indians, and got some
sleighs and sleighed the stuff down the hill. This hill goes down pretty
swift, and then drops at an angle of fifty-five degrees for about forty
feet, and we had to rough-lock our sleighs and let them go. There was an
awful fog, and we could not see where we were going. Some fellows helped
us down with the first load, or there would have been nothing left of
us. When we let a sleigh go from the top it jumps about fifty feet
clear, and comes down in pieces. We loaded up the sleighs with some of
our stuff, about two hundred and twenty-five pounds each, and started
across the lakes. The trail was awful, and we waded through water and
slush two and three feet deep. We got to the mouth of the canyon at
about eight o'clock at night, done out. We left there that night, and
pushed on again until morning. We got to the bottom of an awful hill,
and packed all our stuff from there to the hill above the lake. We had
about two and a half miles over hills, in snow and slush. I carried
about five hundred pounds over that part of the trail. We had to get
dogs to bring the stuff down from the summit to the head of the canyon.

"We worked two days bringing the stuff over from the canyon to the hill
above the lake. Saturday we worked all day packing down the hill to the
lake, and came here on a scow. We were out yesterday morning cutting
down trees to build a boat. The timber is small, and I don't think we
can get more than four-inch stuff. It rained all afternoon, and we
couldn't do anything. There are about fifty boats of all sorts on Lake
Bennet, which is about half a mile from here. I have long rubber boots
up to the hips, and I did not have them on coming from the summit down,
but I hav
e worn them ever since.

"We met Barwell and Lewis, of Ottawa, to-day. They were out looking for
knees for their boats. They left Ottawa six weeks ago, and have not got
any farther than we have. There was a little saw-mill going here, and
they have their lumber sawn. We have it that warm some days here that
you would fairly roast, and the next day you would be looking for your
overcoat. Everybody here seems to be taking in enough food to do them a
couple of years.

"We are now in Canadian territory, after we passed the summit. I will
have to catch somebody going through to Dyea to give him this letter,
but I don't know how long before I can get any one going through. This
is the last you will hear from me until I get down to the Klondyke."

Mr. Stewart adds: "I wrote this in the tent at 11 o'clock at night
during twilight."

If you take this trip in winter, however, you have to purchase a sled at
Juneau, and sled it over the frozen waterways to Dawson City.

For the benefit of my readers in Canada and for parties leaving for the
great Northwest Territory for the gold fields, I take pleasure in
quoting the following description of a Canadian route:--

"Canadians should awaken to the fact that they have emphatically 'the
inside track' to their own gold fields, a route not half the distance,
largely covered by railways and steamboats, with supply stations at
convenient intervals all the way. By this route the gold-fields can be
reached in two months or six weeks, and the cost of travel is
ridiculously cheap--nearly anybody can afford to go even now, and by the
spring it should be fitted out for the accommodation of any amount of
traffic.

"The details of the information in the following article are given by Mr.
A.H.H. Heming, the artist who accompanied Mr. Whitney in his journey
towards the Barren Lands, and the data may be accepted as correct, as
they were secured from the Hudson Bay officials.

"The details of the inland Canadian route, briefly, are as follows: By
C.P.R. to Calgary, and thence north by rail to Edm
onton; from there by
stage to Athabasca Landing, 40 miles; then, there is a continuous
waterway for canoe travel to Fort Macpherson, at the mouth of the
Mackenzie River, from which point the Peel River lies southward to the
gold region. The exact figures are as follows:

 MILES.
Edmonton to Athabasca Landing 40
To Port McMurray 240
Fort Chippewyan 185
Smith Landing 102
Fort Smith 16
Fort Resolution 194
Fort Providence 168
Fort Simpson 161
Fort Wrigley 136
Fort Norman 184
Fort Good Hope 174
Fort Macpherson 282
 -----
Total 1882

"There are only two portages on this route of any size--that from
Edmonton to Athabasca Landing, over which there is a stage and wagon
line, and at Smith Landing, sixteen miles, over which the Hudson Bay
Company has a tramway. There are four or five other portages of a few
hundred yards, but with these exceptions there is a fine "down grade"
water route all the way. It is the old Hudson Bay trunk line to the
north that has been in use for nearly a century. Wherever there is a
lake or a long stretch of deep water river navigation the company has
small freight steamers which ply back and forward during the summer
between the portage points or shallows. With comparatively little
expenditure the company or the Government can improve the facilities
along the line so that any amount of freight or any number of passengers
can be taken into the gold region at less than half the time and cost
that it takes Americans to reach it from Port St. Michael, at the mouth
of the Yukon to the Klondyke, exclusive of the steamer trip of 2500
miles from Seattle to Port St. Michael.

"Canadians can leave here on a Monday at 11.15 A.M., and reach Edmonton
on Friday at 7 P.M. From that point, a party of three men with a canoe,
should reach Fort Macpherson easily in from 50 to 60 days, provided they
are able-bodied young fellows with experience in that sort of travel.
They will need to take canoes from here, unless they propose to hire
Indians with large birch bark canoes to carry them. Birch bark canoes
can be sec
ured of any size up to the big ones manned by ten Indians that
carry three tons. But birch barks are not reliable unless Indians are
taken along to doctor them, and keep them from getting water-logged. The
Hudson Bay Company will also contract to take freight northward on their
steamers until the close of navigation. Travellers to the gold mines
leaving now would probably reach Fort Macpherson before navigation
closed.

"The letter from Rev. Mr. Stringer, the missionary, published in the
Spectator on July 2, shows that the ice had only commenced to run in the
Peel River, which is the water route south-east from Fort Macpherson
into the gold region, on September 30 last year.

"Any Canadians who are anxious to get into the Klondyke ahead of the
Americans can leave between now and August 1, reach Fort Macpherson,
and if winter comes on they can exchange their canoes for dog trains,
and reach the Klondyke without half the difficulty that would be
experienced on the Alaska route. The great advantage of the inland route
is that it is an organized line of communication. Travellers need not
carry any more food than will take them from one Hudson Bay post to the
next, and then there is abundance of fish and wild fowl en route. They
can also be in touch with such civilization as prevails up there, can
always get assistance at the posts, and will have some place to stay
should they fall sick or meet with an accident. If they are lucky enough
to make their pile in the Klondyke, they can come back by the dog sled
route during the winter. (There is one winter mail to Fort Macpherson in
winter.) Dogs for teams can be purchased at nearly any of the line of
Hudson Bay posts that form a chain of road-houses on the trip.

"Parties travelling alone will not need to employ guides until they get
near Fort Macpherson, and from there on to the Klondyke, as the rest of
the route from Edmonton is so well defined, having been travelled for
years, that no guides are required.

"You don't need a couple of thousand dollars to start for Klond
yke
to-morrow by the Edmonton route. All you need is a good constitution,
some experience in boating and camping, and about $150. Suppose a party
of three decide to start. First they will need to purchase a canoe,
about $35 or less; first-class ticket from Hamilton to Edmonton, $71.40;
second class, ditto, $40.90; cost of food at Edmonton for three men for
two months (should consist of pork, flour, tea and baking-powder), $35;
freight on canoe to Edmonton, $23. Total for three men from Hamilton to
Fort Macpherson, provided they travel second-class on the C.P.R. will be
$218.70. These figures are furnished by Mr. Heming, who has been over
the route 400 miles north of Edmonton, and got the rest of his data
from the Hudson Bay officials.

"If three men chip in $150 each they would have a margin of over $200 for
purchasing their tools and for transport from Fort Macpherson to the
Klondyke. This is how it may be done on the cheap, though Mr. Heming
considers it ample for any party starting this summer. Prices will
likely rise on the route when the rush begins. If the Hudson Bay people
are alive to their interests they will forward a large amount of
supplies for Fort Macpherson immediately and make it the base of
supplies for the Klondyke during the coming winter.

"Parties should consist of three men each, as that is the crew of a
canoe. It will take 600 pounds of food to carry three men over the
route. Passengers on the C.P.R. are entitled to carry 600 pounds of
baggage. The paddling is all down stream, except when they turn south up
Peel River, and sails should be taken, as there is often a favorable
wind for days.

"There are large scows on the line, manned by ten men each and known as
'sturgeon heads.' They are like canal boats, but are punted along and
are used by the Hudson Bay people for taking forward supplies to the
forts.

The return trip to the United States is usually made by the Yukon
steamers from Dawson City direct to St. Michael via the Yukon and Anvik
River, thence by ocean steamer from St. Michael to
 San Francisco."

The following letter is interesting to the prospector as showing the
difficulties to overcome up the Taiya Pass to Lake Lindeman.

_Winnipeg_, July 27, 1897.

A letter has been received from George McLeod, one of the members of the
Winnipeg party of gold hunters that left here recently for the Yukon.
He wrote from Lake Lindeman under date of July 4, and states that the
party expected to leave on the journey from the river a week later. They
had a fine boat, with a freight capacity of two tons about completed.
The real work of the expedition started when the small steamer which
conveyed the party from Juneau arrived at Dyea. The men had to transfer
their goods to a lighter one mile from shore, each man looking after his
own packages. After getting everything ashore the party was organized
for ascent of the mountain pass, which at the hardest point is 3,000
feet above sea level. McLeod and his chum, to save time and money too,
engaged 35 Indians to pack their supplies over the mountains, but they
had to carry their own bedding and grub to keep them on the road. It is
fifteen miles to the summit of the pass and the party made twelve miles
the first day, going into camp at night tired from climbing over rocks,
stumps, logs and hills, working through rivers and creeks and pushing
their way through brush. At the end of twelve miles they thought they
had gone fifty. On the second day out they began to scale the summit of
the mountain. Hill after hill confronted them, each one being steeper
than the last. There was snow on the top of the mountain, and rain was
falling, and this added greatly to the difficulties of the ascent. In
many places the men had to crawl on their hands and knees, so
precipitous was the mountain side. Time after time the men would slip
back several inches, but they recovered themselves and went at it again.

Finally, the summit was gained, McLeod being the first of the party to
reach the top. After resting and changing their clothes the descent was
commenced. McLeod and his chums 
purchased sleighs, on which they loaded
their goods and hauled for five miles. This was extremely laborious
work, and the men were so used up working in the scorching sun that
they were compelled to work at nights and sleep during the day. Two days
after the descent began the sleighs were abandoned, and the men packed
the goods for three miles and a half. They were fortunate in securing
the services of a man who had two horses to convey the goods to Lake
Lindeman.

McLeod says the worry in getting over the pass is terrible, and he has
no desire to repeat the experience. He advises all who go in to have
their goods packed all the way from Dyea to Lake Lindeman. It costs 17
or 18 cents per pound for packing.

McLeod expected that Klondyke would not be reached before July 25.

I think it specially valuable for the reader to give him the approximate
distances to Fort Cudahy, which is below Dawson City via the various
routes.

This table of distances has been prepared by Mr. James Ogilvie, and I
also give a number of his notes which will be of great value to the
traveller when making the trip from Juneau to Dawson City.

APPROXIMATE DISTANCES TO FORT CUDAHY.

VIA ST. MICHAEL.
 Miles.
San Francisco to Dutch Harbor 2,400
Seattle or Victoria to Dutch Harbor 2,000
Dutch Harbor to St. Michael 750
St. Michael to Cudahy 1,600

VIA TAIYA PASS.
Victoria to Taiya 1,000
Taiya to Cudahy 650

VIA STIKINE RIVER.
Victoria to Wrangell 750
Wrangell to Telegraph Creek 150
Telegraph Creek to Teslin Lake 150
Teslin Lake to Cudahy 650

DISTANCES FROM HEAD OF TAIYA INLET.

 Miles
Head of canoe navigation, Taiya River 5.90
Forks of Taiya River 8.38
Summit of Taiya Pass 14.76
Landing at Lake Lindeman 23.06
Foot of Lake Lindeman 27.49
Head of Lake Bennet 28.09
Boundary line B.C. and N.W.T. (Lat 60 deg.) 38.09
Foot of Lake Bennet 53.85
Foot of Caribou Crossing (Lake Nares) 56.44
Foot of Tagish Lake 73.25
Head of Marsh Lake 78.15
Foot of Marsh Lake 97.21
Head of Miles Canon 122.94
Foot of Miles Canon 123.56
Head of White Horse Rapids 124.95
Foo
t of White Horse Rapids 125.33
Tahkeena River 139.92
Head of Lake Labarge 153.07
Foot of Lake Labarge 184.22
Teslintoo River 215.88
Big Salmon River 249.33
Little Salmon River 285.54
Five Finger Rapids 344.83
Pelly River 403.29
White River 499.11
Stewart River 508.91
Sixty-Mile Creek 530.41
Dawson City--The Principal Mining Town 575.70
Fort Reliance 582.20
Forty-Mile River 627.08
Boundary Line. 667.43

"Another route is now being explored between Telegraph Creek and Teslin
Lake and will soon be opened. Telegraph Creek is the head of steamer
navigation on the Stikine River and is about 150 miles from Teslin Lake.
The Yukon is navigable for steamers from its mouth to Teslin Lake, a
distance of 2,300 miles. A road is being located by the Dominion
Government. A grant of $2,000 has been made by the province of British
Columbia for opening it.

"J. Dalton, a trader, has used a route overland from Chilkat Inlet to
Fort Selkirk. Going up the Chilkat and Klaheela Rivers, he crosses the
divide to the Tahkeena River and continues northward over a fairly open
country practicable for horses. The distance from the sea to Fort
Selkirk is 350 miles.

"Last summer a Juneau butcher sent 40 head of cattle to Cudahy. G.
Bounds, the man in charge, crossed the divide over the Chilkat Pass,
followed the shore of Lake Arkell and, keeping to the east of Dalton's
trail, reached the Yukon just below the Rink Rapids. Here the cattle
were slaughtered and the meat floated down on a raft to Cudahy, where it
retailed at $1 a pound.

"It is proposed to establish a winter road somewhere across the country
travelled over by Dalton and Bounds. The Yukon cannot be followed, the
ice being too much broken, so that any winter road will have to be
overland. A thorough exploration is now being made of all the passes at
the head of Lynn Canal and of the upper waters of the Yukon. In a few
months it is expected that the best routes for reaching the district
from Lynn Canal will be definitely known.

"It is said by those familiar with the locality that the 
storms which
rage in the upper altitudes of the coast range during the greater part
of the time, from October to March, are terrific. A man caught in one of
them runs the risk of losing his life, unless he can reach shelter in a
short time. During the summer there is nearly always a wind blowing from
the sea up Chatham Strait and Lynn Canal, which lie in almost a straight
line with each other, and at the head of Lynn Canal are Chilkat and
Chilkoot Inlets. The distance from the coast down these channels to
the open sea is about 380 miles. The mountains on each side of the
water confine the currents of air, and deflect inclined currents in the
direction of the axis of the channel, so that there is nearly always a
strong wind blowing up the channel. Coming from the sea, this wind is
heavily charged with moisture, which is precipitated when the air
currents strike the mountains, and the fall of rain and snow is
consequently very heavy.

"In Chilkat Inlet there is not much shelter from the south wind, which
renders it unsafe for ships calling there. Capt. Hunter told me he would
rather visit any other part of the coast than Chilkat.

"To carry the survey from the island across to Chilkoot Inlet I had to
get up on the mountains north of Haines mission, and from there could
see both inlets. Owing to the bad weather I could get no observation for
azimuth, and had to produce the survey from Pyramid Island to Taiya
Inlet by reading the angles of deflection between the courses. At Taiya
Inlet I got my first observation, and deduced the azimuths of my courses
up to that point. Taiya Inlet has evidently been the valley of a
glacier; its sides are steep and smooth from glacial action; and this,
with the wind almost constantly blowing landward, renders getting upon
the shore difficult. Some long sights were therefore necessary. The
survey was made up to the head of the Inlet on the 2d of June.
Preparations were then commenced for taking the supplies and instruments
over the coast range of mountains to the head of Lake Lindeman 
on the
Lewes River. Commander Newell kindly aided me in making arrangements
with the Indians, and did all he could to induce them to be reasonable
in their demands. This, however, neither he nor any one else could
accomplish. They refused to carry to the lake for less than $20 per
hundred pounds, and as they had learned that the expedition was an
English one, the second chief of the Chilkoot Indians recalled some
memories of an old quarrel which the tribe had with the English many
years ago, in which an uncle of his was killed, and he thought we should
pay for the loss of his uncle by being charged an exorbitant price for
our packing, of which he had the sole control. Commander Newell told him
I had a permit from the Great Father at Washington to pass through his
country safely, that he would see that I did so, and if the Indians
interfered with me they would be punished for doing so. After much talk
they consented to carry our stuff to the summit of the mountain for $10
per hundred pounds. This is about two-thirds of the whole distance,
includes all the climbing and all the woods, and is by far the most
difficult part of the way.

"On the 6th of June 120 Indians, men, women and children, started for
the summit. I sent two of my party with them to see the goods delivered
at the place agreed upon. Each carrier when given a pack also got a
ticket, on which was inscribed the contents of the pack, its weight, and
the amount the individual was to get for carrying it. They were made to
understand that they had to produce these tickets on delivering their
packs, but were not told for what reason. As each pack was delivered one
of my men receipted the ticket and returned it. The Indians did not seem
to understand the import of this; a few of them pretended to have lost
their tickets; and as they could not get paid without them, my
assistant, who had duplicates of every ticket, furnished them with
receipted copies, after examining their packs.

"While they were packing to the summit I was producing the survey, and I
met t
hem on their return at the foot of the canon, about eight miles
from the coast, where I paid them. They came to the camp in the early
morning before I was up, and for about two hours there was quite a
hubbub. When paying them I tried to get their names, but very few of
them would give any Indian name, nearly all, after a little reflection,
giving some common English name. My list contained little else than
Jack, Tom, Joe, Charlie, &c. some of which were duplicated three and
four times. I then found why some of them had pretended to lose their
tickets at the summit. Three or four who had thus acted presented
themselves twice for payment, producing first the receipted ticket,
afterwards the one they claimed to have lost, demanding pay for both.
They were much taken aback when they found that their duplicity had been
discovered.

"These Indians are perfectly heartless. They will not render even the
smallest aid to each other without payment; and if not to each other,
much less to a white man. I got one of them, whom I had previously
assisted with his pack, to take me and two of my party over a small
creek in his canoe. After putting us across he asked for money, and I
gave him half a dollar. Another man stepped up and demanded pay, stating
that the canoe was his. To see what the result would be, I gave to him
the same amount as to the first. Immediately there were three or four
more claimants for the canoe. I dismissed them with a blessing, and made
up my mind that I would wade the next creek.

"While paying them I was a little apprehensive of trouble, for they
insisted on crowding into my tent, and for myself and the four men who
were with me to have attempted to eject them would have been to invite
trouble. I am strongly of the opinion that these Indians would have been
much more difficult to deal with if they had not known that Commander
Newell remained in the inlet to see that I got through without accident.

"While making the survey from the head of tide water I took the azimuths
and altitudes of several of the
 highest peaks around the head of the
inlet, in order to locate them, and obtain an idea of the general
height of the peaks in the coast range. As it does not appear to have
been done before, I have taken the opportunity of naming all the peaks,
the positions of which I fixed in the above way. The names and altitudes
appear on my map.

"While going up from the head of canoe navigation on the Taiya River I
took the angles of elevation of each station from the preceding one. I
would have done this from tide water up, but found many of the courses
so short and with so little increase in height that with the instrument
I had it was inappreciable. From these angles I have computed the height
of the summit of the Taiya Pass,[2] above the head of canoe navigation,
as it appeared to me in June, 1887, and find it to be 3,378 feet. What
depth of snow there was I cannot say. The head of canoe navigation I
estimate at about 120 feet above tide water. Dr. Dawson gives it as 124
feet.

[Footnote 2: The distance from the head of Taiya Inlet to the summit of
the pass is 15 miles, and the whole length of the pass to Lake Lindeman
is 23 miles. Messrs. Healy and Wilson, dealers in general merchandise
and miners' supplies at Taiya, have a train of pack horses carrying
freight from the head of Lynn Canal to the summit. They hope to be able
to take freight through to Lake Lindeman with their horses during the
present season.]

"I determined the descent from the summit to Lake Lindeman by carrying
the aneroid from the lake to the summit and back again, the interval of
time from start to return being about eight hours. Taking the mean of
the readings at the lake, start and return, and the single reading at
the summit, the height of the summit above the lake was found to be
1,237 feet. While making the survey from the summit down to the lake I
took the angles of depression of each station from the preceding one,
and from these angles I deduced the difference of height, which I found
to be 1,354 feet, or 117 feet more than that found by t
he aneroid. This
is quite a large difference; but when we consider the altitude of the
place, the sudden changes of temperature, and the atmospheric
conditions, it is not more than one might expect.

"While at Juneau I heard reports of a low pass from the head of Chilkoot
Inlet to the head waters of Lewes River. During the time I was at the
head of Taiya Inlet I made inquiries regarding it, and found that there
was such a pass, but could learn nothing definite about it from either
whites or Indians. As Capt. Moore, who accompanied me, was very anxious
to go through it, and as the reports of the Taiya Pass indicated that no
wagon road or railroad could ever be built through it, while the new
pass appeared, from what little knowledge I could get of it, to be much
lower and possibly feasible for a wagon road, I determined to send the
captain by that way, if I could get an Indian to accompany him. This, I
found, would be difficult to do. None of the Chilkoots appeared to know
anything of the pass, and I concluded that they wished to keep its
existence and condition a secret. The Tagish, or Stick Indians, as the
interior Indians are locally called, are afraid to do anything in
opposition to the wishes of the Chilkoots; so it was difficult to get
any of them to join Capt. Moore; but after much talk and encouragement
from the whites around, one of them named "Jim" was induced to go. He
had been through this pass before, and proved reliable and useful. The
information obtained from Capt. Moore's exploration I have incorporated
in my plan of the survey from Taiya Inlet, but it is not as complete as
I would have liked. I have named this pass "White Pass," in honor of the
late Hon. Thos. White, Minister of the Interior, under whose authority
the expedition was organized. Commencing at Taiya Inlet, about two miles
south of its north end, it follows up the valley, of the Shkagway River
to its source, and thence down the valley of another river which Capt.
Moore reported to empty into the Takone or Windy Arm of Bove Lake
(Schw
atka). Dr. Dawson says this stream empties into Taku Arm, and in
that event Capt. Moore is mistaken. Capt. Moore did not go all the way
through to the lake, but assumed from reports he heard from the miners
and others that the stream flowed into Windy Arm, and this also was the
idea of the Indian "Jim" from what I could gather from his remarks in
broken English and Chinook. Capt. Moore estimates the distance from tide
water to the summit at about 18 miles, and from the summit to the lake
at about 22 to 23 miles. He reports the pass as thickly timbered all the
way through.

"The timber line on the south side of the Taiya Pass, as determined by
barometer reading, is about 2,300 feet above the sea, while on the north
side it is about 1,000 feet below the summit. This large difference is
due, I think, to the different conditions in the two places. On the
south side the valley is narrow and deep, and the sun cannot produce its
full effect. The snow also is much deeper there, owing to the quantity
which drifts in from the surrounding mountains. On the north side the
surface is sloping, and more exposed to the sun's rays. On the south
side the timber is of the class peculiar to the coast, and on the north
that peculiar to the interior. The latter would grow at a greater
altitude than the coast timber. It is possible that the summit of White
Pass is not higher than the timber line on the north of the Taiya Pass,
or about 2,500 feet above tide water, and it is possibly even lower than
this, as the timber in a valley such as the White Pass would hardly live
at the same altitude as on the open <DW72> on the north side.

"Capt. Moore has had considerable experience in building roads in
mountainous countries. He considers that this would be an easy route for
a wagon road compared with some roads he has seen in British Columbia.
Assuming his distances to be correct, and the height of the pass to be
probably about correctly indicated, the grades would not be very steep,
and a railroad could easily be carried through if necessar
y.

"After completing the survey down to the lake, I set about getting my
baggage down too. Of all the Indians who came to the summit with packs,
only four or five could be induced to remain and pack down to the lake,
although I was paying them at the rate of $4 per hundred pounds. After
one trip down only two men remained, and they only in hopes of stealing
something. One of them appropriated a pair of boots, and was much
surprised to find that he had to pay for them on being settled with. I
could not blame them much for not caring to work, as the weather was
very disagreeable--it rained or snowed almost continuously. After the
Indians left I tried to get down the stuff with the aid of my own men,
but it was slavish and unhealthy labor, and after the first trip one of
them was laid up with what appeared to be inflammatory rheumatism. The
first time the party crossed, the sun was shining brightly, and this
brought on snow blindness, the pain of which only those who have
suffered from this complaint can realize. I had two sleds with me which
were made in Juneau specially for the work of getting over the mountains
and down the lakes on the ice. With these I succeeded in bringing about
a ton and a-half to the lakes, but found that the time it would take to
get all down in this way would seriously interfere with the programme
arranged with Dr. Dawson, to say nothing of the suffering of the men and
myself, and the liability to sickness which protracted physical exertion
under such uncomfortable conditions and continued suffering from snow
blindness expose us to. I had with me a white man who lived at the head
of the inlet with a Tagish Indian woman. This man had a good deal of
influence with the Tagish tribe, of whom the greater number were then
in the neighborhood where he resided, trying to get some odd jobs of
work, and I sent him to the head of the inlet to try and induce the
Tagish Indians to undertake the transportation, offering them $5 per
hundred pounds. In the meantime Capt. Moore and the Indian "Jim" had
re
joined me. I had their assistance for a day or two, and "Jim's"
presence aided indirectly in inducing the Indians to come to my relief.

"The Tagish are little more than slaves to the more powerful coast
tribes, and are in constant dread of offending them in any way. One of
the privileges which the coast tribes claim is the exclusive right to
all work on the coast or in its vicinity, and the Tagish are afraid to
dispute this claim. When my white man asked the Tagish to come over and
pack they objected on the grounds mentioned. After considerable ridicule
of their cowardice, and explanation of the fact that they had the
exclusive right to all work in their own country, the country on the
side of the north side of the coast range being admitted by the coast
Indians to belong to the Tagish tribe just as the coast tribes had the
privilege of doing all the work on the coast side of the mountains, and
that one of their number was already working with me unmolested, and
likely to continue so, nine of them came over, and in fear and trembling
began to pack down to the lake. After they were at work for a few days
some of the Chilkoots came out and also started to work. Soon I had
quite a number at work and was getting my stuff down quite fast. But
this good fortune was not to continue. Owing to the prevailing wet, cold
weather on the mountains, and the difficulty of getting through the soft
wet snow, the Indians soon began to quit work for a day or two at a
time, and to gamble with one another for the wages already earned. Many
of them wanted to be paid in full, but this I positively refused,
knowing that to do so was to have them all apply for their earnings and
leave me until necessity compelled them to go to work again. I once for
all made them distinctly understand that I would not pay any of them
until the whole of the stuff was down. As many of them had already
earned from twelve to fifteen dollars each, to lose which was a serious
matter to them, they reluctantly resumed work and kept at it until all
was delivered.
 This done, I paid them off, and set about getting my
outfit across the lake, which I did with my own party and the two
Peterborough canoes which I had with me.

"These two canoes travelled about 3,000 miles by rail and about 1,000
miles by steamship before being brought into service. They did
considerable work on Chilkoot and Tagish Inlets, and were then packed
over to the head of Lewes River (Lake Lindeman), from where they were
used in making the survey of Lewes and Yukon Rivers. In this work they
made about 650 landings. They were then transported on sleighs from the
boundary on the Yukon to navigable water on the Porcupine.

"In the spring of 1888 they descended the latter river, heavily loaded,
and through much rough water, to the mouth of Bell's River, and up it to
McDougall's Pass. They were then carried over the pass to Poplar River
and were used in going down the latter to Peel River, and thence up
Mackenzie River 1,400 miles; or, exclusive of railway and ship carriage,
they were carried about 170 miles and did about 2,500 miles of work for
the expedition, making in all about 1,700 landings in no easy manner and
going through some very bad water. I left them at Fort Chipewyan in
fairly good condition, and, with a little painting, they would go
through the same ordeal again.

"After getting all my outfit over to the foot of Lake Lindeman I set some
of the party to pack it to the head of Lake Bennet.

"I employed the rest of the party in looking for timber to build a boat
to carry my outfit of provisions and implements down the river to the
vicinity of the international boundary, a distance of about 700 miles.
It took several days to find a tree large enough to make plank for the
boat I wanted, as the timber around the upper end of the lake is small
and scrubby. My boat was finished on the evening of the 11th of July,
and on the 12th I started a portion of the party to load it and go ahead
with it and the outfit to the canon. They had instructions to examine
the canon and, if necessary, to carry a part of
 the outfit past it--in
any case, enough to support the party back to the coast should accident
necessitate such procedure. With the rest of the party I started to
carry on the survey, which may now be said to have fairly started ahead
on the lakes. This proved tedious work, on account of the stormy
weather.

"In the summer months there is nearly always a wind blowing in from the
coast; it blows down the lakes and produces quite a heavy swell. This
would not prevent the canoes going with the decks on, but, as we had to
land every mile or so, the rollers breaking on the generally flat beach
proved very troublesome. On this account I found I could not average
more than ten miles per day on the lakes, little more than half of what
could be done on the river.

"The survey was completed to the canon on the 20th of July. There I
found the party with the large boat had arrived on the 18th, having
carried a part of the supplies past the canon, and were awaiting my
arrival to run through it with the rest in the boat. Before doing so,
however, I made an examination of the canon. The rapids below it,
particularly the last rapid of the series (called the White Horse by the
miners), I found would not be safe to run. I sent two men through the
canon in one of the canoes to await the arrival of the boat, and to be
ready in case of an accident to pick us up. Every man in the party was
supplied with a life-preserver, so that should a casualty occur we would
all have floated. Those in the canoe got through all right; but they
would not have liked to repeat the trip. They said the canoe jumped
about a great deal more than they thought it would, and I had the same
experience when going through in the boat.

"The passage through is made in about three minutes, or at the rate of
about 12-1/2 miles an hour. If the boat is kept clear of the sides there
is not much danger in high water; but in low water there is a rock in
the middle of the channel, near the upper end of the canon, that renders
the passage more difficult. I did not see th
is rock myself, but got my
information from some miners I met in the interior, who described it as
being about 150 yards down from the head and a little to the west of the
middle of the channel. In low water it barely projects above the
surface. When I passed through there was no indication of it, either
from the bank above or from the boat.

"The distance from the head to the foot of the canon is five-eighths of
a mile. There is a basin about midway in it about 150 yards in diameter.
This basin is circular in form, with steep sloping sides about 100 feet
high. The lower part of the canon is much rougher to run through than
the upper part, the fall being apparently much greater. The sides are
generally perpendicular, about 80 to 100 feet high, and consist of
basalt, in some places showing hexagonal columns.

"The White Horse Rapids are about three-eighths of a mile long. They are
the most dangerous rapids on the river, and are never run through in
boats except by accident. They are confined by low basaltic banks,
which, at the foot, suddenly close in and make the channel about 30
yards wide. It is here the danger lies, as there is a sudden drop and
the water rashes through at a tremendous rate, leaping and seething like
a cataract. The miners have constructed a portage road on the west side,
and put down rollways in some places on which to shove their boats over.
They have also made some windlasses with which to haul their boats up
hill, notably one at the foot of the canon. This roadway and windlasses
must have cost them many hours of hard labor. Should it ever be
necessary, a tramway could be built past the canon on the east side with
no great difficulty. With the exception of the Five Finger Rapids these
appear to be the only serious rapids on the whole length of the river.

"Five Finger Rapids are formed by several islands standing in the
channel and backing up the water so much as to raise it about a foot,
causing a swell below for a few yards. The islands are composed of
conglomerate rock, similar to the cl
iffs on each side of the river,
whence one would infer that there has been a fall here in past ages. For
about two miles below the rapids there is a pretty swift current, but
not enough to prevent the ascent of a steamboat of moderate power, and
the rapids themselves I do not think would present any serious obstacle
to the ascent of a good boat. In very high water warping might be
required. Six miles below these rapids are what are known as 'Rink
Rapids,' This is simply a barrier of rocks, which extends from the
westerly side of the river about half way across. Over this barrier
there is a ripple which would offer no great obstacle to the descent of
a good canoe. On the easterly sides there is no ripple, and the current
is smooth and the water apparently deep. I tried with a 6 foot paddle,
but could not reach the bottom.

"On the 11th of August I met a party of miners coming out who had passed
Stewart River a few days before. They saw no sign of Dr. Dawson having
been there. This was welcome news for me, as I expected he would have
reached that point long before I arrived, on account of the many delays
I had met with on the coast range. These miners also gave me the
pleasant news that the story told at the coast about the fight with the
Indians at Stewart River was false, and stated substantially what I have
already repeated concerning it. The same evening I met more miners on
their way out, and the next day met three boats, each containing four
men. In the crew of one of them was a son of Capt. Moore, from whom the
captain got such information as induced him to turn back and accompany
them out.

"Next day, the 13th, I got to the mouth of the Pelly, and found that Dr.
Dawson had arrived there on the 11th. The doctor also had experienced
many delays, and had heard the same story of the Indian uprising in the
interior. I was pleased to find that he was in no immediate want of
provisions, the fear of which had caused me a great deal of uneasiness
on the way down the river, as it was arranged between us in Victoria
t
hat I was to take with me provisions for his party to do them until
their return to the coast. The doctor was so much behind the time
arranged to meet me that he determined to start for the coast at once. I
therefore set about making a short report and plan of my survey to this
point; and, as I was not likely to get another opportunity of writing at
such length for a year, I applied myself to a correspondence designed to
satisfy my friends and acquaintances for the ensuing twelve months. This
necessitated three days' hard work.

"On the morning of the 17th the doctor left for the outside world,
leaving me with a feeling of loneliness that only those who have
experienced it can realize. I remained at the mouth of the Pelly during
the next day taking magnetic and astronomical observations, and making
some measurements of the river. On the 19th I resumed the survey and
reached White River on the 25th. Here I spent most of a day trying to
ascend this river, but found it impracticable, on account of the swift
current and shallow and very muddy water. The water is so muddy that it
is impossible to see through one-eighth of an inch of it. The current is
very strong, probably eight miles or more per hour, and the numerous
bars in the bed are constantly changing place. After trying for several
hours, the base men succeeded in doing about half a mile only, and I
came to the conclusion that it was useless to try to get up this stream
to the boundary with canoes. Had it proved feasible I had intended
making a survey of this stream to the boundary, to discover more
especially the facilities it offered for the transport of supplies in
the event of a survey of the International Boundary being undertaken.

"I reached Stewart River on the 26th. Here I remained a day taking
magnetic observations, and getting information from a miner, named
McDonald, about the country up that river. McDonald had spent the summer
up the river prospecting and exploring. His information will be given in
detail further on.

"Fort Reliance was reached o
n the 1st of September, and Forty Mile River
(Cone-Hill River of Schwatka) on the 7th. In the interval between Fort
Reliance and Forty Mile River there were several days lost by rain.

"At Forty Mile River I made some arrangements with the traders there
(Messrs. Harper & McQuestion) about supplies during the winter, and
about getting Indians to assist me in crossing from the Yukon to the
head of the Porcupine, or perhaps on to the Peel River. I then made a
survey of the Forty Mile River up to the canon. I found the canon would
be difficult of ascent, and dangerous to descend, and therefore,
concluded to defer further operations until the winter, and until after
I had determined the longitude of my winter post near the boundary, when
I would be in a much better position to locate the intersection of the
International Boundary with this river, a point important to determine
on account of the number and richness of the mining claims on the river.

"I left Forty Mile River for the boundary line between Alaska and the
Northwest Territories on the 12th September, and finished the survey to
that point on the 14th. I then spent two days in examining the valley of
the river in the vicinity of the boundary to get the most extensive view
of the horizon possible, and to find a tree large enough to serve for a
transit stand.

"Before leaving Toronto I got Mr. Foster to make large brass plates with
V's on them, which could be screwed firmly to a stump, and thus be made
to serve as a transit stand. I required a stump at least 22 inches in
diameter to make a base large enough for the plates when properly placed
for the transit. In a search which covered about four miles of the river
bank, on both sides, I found only one tree as large as 18 inches. I
mention this fact to give an idea of the size of the trees along the
river in this vicinity. I had this stump enlarged by firmly fixing
pieces on the sides so as to bring it up to the requisite size. This
done, I built around the stump a small transit house of the ordinary
form and t
hen mounted and adjusted my transit. Meanwhile, most of the
party were busy preparing our winter quarters and building a magnetic
observatory. As I had been led to expect extremely low temperatures
during the winter, I adopted precautionary measures, so as to be as
comfortable as circumstances would permit during our stay there.

DESCRIPTION OF THE YUKON, ITS AFFLUENT STREAMS, AND THE ADJACENT
COUNTRY.

"I will now give, from my own observation and from information received,
a more detailed description of the Lewes River, its affluent streams,
and the resources of the adjacent country.

"For the purpose of navigation a description of the Lewes River begins
at the head of Lake Bennet. Above that point, and between it and Lake
Lindeman, there is only about three-quarters of a mile of river, which
is not more than fifty or sixty yards wide, and two or three feet deep,
and is so swift and rough that navigation is out of the question.

"Lake Lindeman is about five miles long and half a mile wide. It is deep
enough for all ordinary purposes. Lake Bennet[3] is twenty-six and a
quarter miles long, for the upper fourteen of which it is about half a
mile wide. About midway in its length an arm comes in from the west,
which Schwatka appears to have mistaken for a river, and named Wheaton
River. This arm is wider than the other arm down to that point, and is
reported by Indians to be longer and heading in a glacier which lies in
the pass at the head of Chilkoot Inlet. This arm is, as far as seen,
surrounded by high mountains, apparently much higher than those on the
arm we travelled down. Below the junction of the two arms the lake is
about one and a half miles wide, with deep water. Above the forks the
water of the east branch is muddy. This is caused by the streams from
the numerous glaciers on the head of the tributaries of Lake Lindeman.

[Footnote 3: A small saw-mill has been erected at the head of Lake
Bennet; lumber for boat building sells at $100 per M. Boats 25 feet long
and 5 feet beam are $60 each. Last year the i
ce broke up in the lake on
the 12th June, but this season is earlier and the boats are expected to
go down the lake about the 1st of June.]

"A stream which flows into Lake Bennet at the south-west corner is also
very dirty, and has shoaled quite a large portion of the lake at its
mouth. The beach at the lower end of this lake is comparatively flat and
the water shoal. A deep, wide valley extends northwards from the north
end of the lake, apparently reaching to the canon, or a short distance
above it. This may have been originally a course for the waters of the
river. The bottom of the valley is wide and sandy, and covered with
scrubby timber, principally poplar and pitch-pine. The waters of the
lake empty at the extreme north-east angle through a channel not more
than one hundred yards wide, which soon expands into what Schwatka
called Lake Nares.[4] Through this narrow channel there is quite a
current, and more than 7 feet of water, as a 6 foot paddle and a foot of
arm added to its length did not reach the bottom.

[Footnote 4: The connecting waters between Lake Bennet and Tagish Lake
constitute what is now called Caribou Crossing.]

"The hills at the upper end of Lake Lindeman rise abruptly from the
water's edge. At the lower end they are neither so steep nor so high.

"Lake Nares is only two and a half miles long, and its greatest width is
about a mile; it is not deep, but is navigable for boats drawing 5 or 6
feet of water; it is separated from Lake Bennet by a shallow sandy point
of not more than 200 yards in length.

"No streams of any consequence empty into either of these lakes. A small
river flows into Lake Bennet on the west side, a short distance north of
the fork, and another at the extreme north-west angle, but neither of
them is of any consequence in a navigable sense.

"Lake Nares flows through a narrow curved channel into Bove Lake
(Schwatka). This channel is not more than 600 or 700 yards long, and the
water in it appears to be sufficiently deep for boats that could
navigate the lake. The land b
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Beth Trapaga and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE MOUNTAINS OF CALIFORNIA

BY

JOHN MUIR

[Illustration: HOOFED LOCUSTS.]

1894

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

 I THE SIERRA NEVADA
 II THE GLACIERS
 III THE SNOW
 IV A NEAR VIEW OF THE HIGH SIERRA
 V THE PASSES
 VI THE GLACIER LAKES
 VII THE GLACIER MEADOWS
VIII THE FORESTS
 IX THE DOUGLAS SQUIRREL
 X A WIND-STORM IN THE FORESTS
 XI THE RIVER FLOODS
 XII SIERRA THUNDER-STORMS
XIII THE WATER-OUZEL
 XIV THE WILD SHEEP
 XV IN THE SIERRA FOOT-HILLS
 XVI THE BEE-PASTURES

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

HOOFED LOCUSTS
MOUNT TAMALPAIS--NORTH OF THE GOLDEN GATE
MOUNT SHASTA, LOOKING SOUTHWEST
MOUNT HOOD
MOUNT RAINIER FROM PARADISE VALLEY--NISQUALLY GLACIER
MAP OF THE YOSEMITE VALLEY
MAP OF THE YOSEMITE VALLEY, SHOWING PRESENT RESERVATION BOUNDARY
VIEW OF THE MONO PLAIN FROM THE FOOT OF BLOODY CANON
LAKE TENAYA, ONE OF THE YOSEMITE FOUNTAINS
THE DEATH OF A LAKE
LAKE STARR KING
VIEW IN THE SIERRA FOREST
EDGE OF THE TIMBER LINE ON MOUNT SHASTA
VIEW IN THE MAIN PINE BELT OF THE SIERRA FOREST
NUT PINE
THE GROVE FORM
LOWER MARGIN OF THE MAIN PINE BELT, SHOWING OPEN CHARACTER OF WOODS
SUGAR PINE ON EXPOSED RIDGE
YOUNG SUGAR PINE BEGINNING TO BEAR CONES
FOREST OF SEQUOIA, SUGAR PINE, AND DOUGLAS SPRUCE
PINUS PONDEROSA
SILVER PINE 210 FEET HIGH
INCENSE CEDAR IN ITS PRIME
FOREST OF GRAND SILVER FIRS
VIEW OF FOREST OF THE MAGNIFICENT SILVER FIR
SILVER-FIR FOREST GROWING ON MORAINES OF THE HOFFMAN AND TENAYA
 GLACIERS
JUNIPER, OR RED CEDAR
STORM-BEATEN HEMLOCK SPRUCE, FORTY FEET HIGH
GROUP OF ERECT DWARF PINES
A DWARF PINE
OAK GROWING AMONG YELLOW PINES
TRACK OF DOUGLAS SQUIRREL ONCE DOWN AND UP A PINE-TREE WHEN SHOWING
 OFF TO A SPECTATOR
SEEDS, WINGS, AND SCALE OF SUGAR PINE
TRYING THE BOW
A WIND-STORM IN THE CALIFORNIA FORESTS
WATER-OUZEL DIVING AND FEEDING
ONE OF THE LATE-SUMMER FEEDING-GROUNDS OF THE OUZEL
OUZEL ENTERING A WHITE CURRENT
THE OUZEL AT HOME
YOSEMITE BIRDS, SNOW-BOUND AT THE FOOT OF INDIAN CANON
SNOW-BOUND ON MOUNT SHASTA
HEAD OF THE MERINO RAM
HEAD OF ROCKY MOUNTAIN WILD S
HEEP
CROSSING A CANON STREAM
WILD SHEEP JUMPING OVER A PRECIPICE
INDIANS HUNTING WILD SHEEP
A BEE-RANCH IN LOWER CALIFORNIA
WILD BEE GARDEN
IN THE SAN GABRIEL VALLEY.--WHITE SAGE
A BEE-RANCH ON A SPUR OF THE SAN GABRIEL RANGE.--CARDINAL FLOWER
WILD BUCKWHEAT.--A BEE-RANCH IN THE WILDERNESS
A BEE-PASTURE ON THE MORAINE DESERT.--SPANISH BAYONET
A BEE-KEEPER'S CABIN

CHAPTER I

THE SIERRA NEVADA

Go where you may within the bounds of California, mountains are ever in
sight, charming and glorifying every landscape. Yet so simple and
massive is the topography of the State in general views, that the main
central portion displays only one valley, and two chains of mountains
which seem almost perfectly regular in trend and height: the Coast Range
on the west side, the Sierra Nevada on the east. These two ranges coming
together in curves on the north and south inclose a magnificent basin,
with a level floor more than 400 miles long, and from 35 to 60 miles
wide. This is the grand Central Valley of California, the waters of
which have only one outlet to the sea through the Golden Gate. But with
this general simplicity of features there is great complexity of hidden
detail. The Coast Range, rising as a grand green barrier against the
ocean, from 2000 to 8000 feet high, is composed of innumerable
forest-crowned spurs, ridges, and rolling hill-waves which inclose a
multitude of smaller valleys; some looking out through long,
forest-lined vistas to the sea; others, with but few trees, to the
Central Valley; while a thousand others yet smaller are embosomed and
concealed in mild, round-browed hills, each, with its own climate, soil,
and productions.

Making your way through the mazes of the Coast Range to the summit of
any of the inner peaks or passes opposite San Francisco, in the clear
springtime, the grandest and most telling of all California landscapes
is outspread before you. At your feet lies the great Central Valley
glowing golden in the sunshine, extending north and south farther than
the eye can reach, one smooth, flo
wery, lake-like bed of fertile soil.
Along its eastern margin rises the mighty Sierra, miles in height,
reposing like a smooth, cumulous cloud in the sunny sky, and so
gloriously , and so luminous, it seems to be not clothed with
light, but wholly composed of it, like the wall of some celestial city.
Along the top, and extending a good way down, you see a pale, pearl-gray
belt of snow; and below it a belt of blue and dark purple, marking the
extension of the forests; and along the base of the range a broad belt
of rose-purple and yellow, where lie the minor's gold-fields and the
foot-hill gardens. All these belts blending smoothly make a wall
of light ineffably fine, and as beautiful as a rainbow, yet firm as
adamant.

When I first enjoyed this superb view, one glowing April day, from the
summit of the Pacheco Pass, the Central Valley, but little trampled or
plowed as yet, was one furred, rich sheet of golden compositae, and the
luminous wall of the mountains shone in all its glory. Then it seemed to
me the Sierra should be called not the Nevada, or Snowy Range, but the
Range of Light. And after ten years spent in the heart of it, rejoicing
and wondering, bathing in its glorious floods of light, seeing the
sunbursts of morning among the icy peaks, the noonday radiance on the
trees and rocks and snow, the flush of the alpenglow, and a thousand
dashing waterfalls with their marvelous abundance of irised spray, it
still seems to me above all others the Range of Light, the most divinely
beautiful of all the mountain-chains I have ever seen.

The Sierra is about 500 miles long, 70 miles wide, and from 7000 to
nearly 15,000 feet high. In general views no mark of man is visible on
it, nor anything to suggest the richness of the life it cherishes, or
the depth and grandeur of its sculpture. None of its magnificent
forest-crowned ridges rises much above the general level to publish its
wealth. No great valley or lake is seen, or river, or group of
well-marked features of any kind, standing out in distinct pictures.
Even t
he summit-peaks, so clear and high in the sky, seem comparatively
smooth and featureless. Nevertheless, glaciers are still at work in the
shadows of the peaks, and thousands of lakes and meadows shine and bloom
beneath them, and the whole range is furrowed with canons to a depth of
from 2000 to 5000 feet, in which once flowed majestic glaciers, and in
which now flow and sing a band of beautiful rivers.

Though of such stupendous depth, these famous canons are not raw,
gloomy, jagged-walled gorges, savage and inaccessible. With rough
passages here and there they still make delightful pathways for the
mountaineer, conducting from the fertile lowlands to the highest icy
fountains, as a kind of mountain streets full of charming life and
light, graded and sculptured by the ancient glaciers, and presenting,
throughout all their courses, a rich variety of novel and attractive
scenery, the most attractive that has yet been discovered in the
mountain-ranges of the world.

In many places, especially in the middle region of the western flank of
the range, the main canons widen into spacious valleys or parks,
diversified like artificial landscape-gardens, with charming groves and
meadows, and thickets of blooming bushes, while the lofty, retiring
walls, infinitely varied in form and sculpture, are fringed with ferns,
flowering-plants of many species, oaks, and evergreens, which find
anchorage on a thousand narrow steps and benches; while the whole is
enlivened and made glorious with rejoicing streams that come dancing and
foaming over the sunny brows of the cliffs to join the shining river
that flows in tranquil beauty down the middle of each one of them.

The walls of these park valleys of the Yosemite kind are made up of
rocks mountains in size, partly separated from each other by narrow
gorges and side-canons; and they are so sheer in front, and so compactly
built together on a level floor, that, comprehensively seen, the parks
they inclose look like immense halls or temples lighted from above.
Every rock seems to glow wi
th life. Some lean back in majestic repose;
others, absolutely sheer, or nearly so, for thousands of feet, advance
their brows in thoughtful attitudes beyond their companions, giving
welcome to storms and calms alike, seemingly conscious yet heedless of
everything going on about them, awful in stern majesty, types of
permanence, yet associated with beauty of the frailest and most fleeting
forms; their feet set in pine-groves and gay emerald meadows, their
brows in the sky; bathed in light, bathed in floods of singing water,
while snow-clouds, avalanches, and the winds shine and surge and wreathe
about them as the years go by, as if into these mountain mansions Nature
had taken pains to gather her choicest treasures to draw her lovers into
close and confiding communion with her.

[Illustration: MOUNT TAMALPAIS--NORTH OF THE GOLDEN GATE.]

Here, too, in the middle region of deepest canons are the grandest
forest-trees, the Sequoia, king of conifers, the noble Sugar and Yellow
Pines, Douglas Spruce, Libocedrus, and the Silver Firs, each a giant of
its kind, assembled together in one and the same forest, surpassing all
other coniferous forests in the world, both in the number of its species
and in the size and beauty of its trees. The winds flow in melody
through their colossal spires, and they are vocal everywhere with the
songs of birds and running water. Miles of fragrant ceanothus and
manzanita bushes bloom beneath them, and lily gardens and meadows, and
damp, ferny glens in endless variety of fragrance and color, compelling
the admiration of every observer. Sweeping on over ridge and valley,
these noble trees extend a continuous belt from end to end of the range,
only slightly interrupted by sheer-walled canons at intervals of about
fifteen and twenty miles. Here the great burly brown bears delight to
roam, harmonizing with the brown boles of the trees beneath which they
feed. Deer, also, dwell here, and find food and shelter in the ceanothus
tangles, with a multitude of smaller people. Above this region of
gian
ts, the trees grow smaller until the utmost limit of the timber line
is reached on the stormy mountain-<DW72>s at a height of from ten to
twelve thousand feet above the sea, where the Dwarf Pine is so lowly and
hard beset by storms and heavy snow, it is pressed into flat tangles,
over the tops of which we may easily walk. Below the main forest belt
the trees likewise diminish in size, frost and burning drought repressing
and blasting alike.

The rose-purple zone along the base of the range comprehends nearly all
the famous gold region of California. And here it was that miners from
every country under the sun assembled in a wild, torrent-like rush to
seek their fortunes. On the banks of every river, ravine, and gully they
have left their marks. Every gravel- and boulder-bed has been
desperately riddled over and over again. But in this region the pick and
shovel, once wielded with savage enthusiasm, have been laid away, and
only quartz-mining is now being carried on to any considerable extent.
The zone in general is made up of low, tawny, waving foot-hills,
roughened here and there with brush and trees, and outcropping masses of
slate, gray and red with lichens. The smaller masses of slate,
rising abruptly from the dry, grassy sod in leaning slabs, look like
ancient tombstones in a deserted burying-ground. In early spring, say
from February to April, the whole of this foot-hill belt is a paradise
of bees and flowers. Refreshing rains then fall freely, birds are busy
building their nests, and the sunshine is balmy and delightful. But by
the end of May the soil, plants, and sky seem to have been baked in an
oven. Most of the plants crumble to dust beneath the foot, and the
ground is full of cracks; while the thirsty traveler gazes with eager
longing through the burning glare to the snowy summits looming like hazy
clouds in the distance.

The trees, mostly _Quercus Douglasii_ and _Pinus Sabiniana_,
thirty to forty feet high, with thin, pale-green foliage, stand far
apart and cast but little shade. Lizards glide about
 on the rocks
enjoying a constitution that no drought can dry, and ants in amazing
numbers, whose tiny sparks of life seem to burn the brighter with the
increasing heat, ramble industriously in long trains in search of food.
Crows, ravens, magpies--friends in distress--gather on the ground
beneath the best shade-trees, panting with drooping wings and bills wide
open, scarce a note from any of them during the midday hours. Quails,
too, seek the shade during the heat of the day about tepid pools in the
channels of the larger mid-river streams. Rabbits scurry from thicket to
thicket among the ceanothus bushes, and occasionally a long-eared hare
is seen cantering gracefully across the wider openings. The nights are
calm and dewless during the summer, and a thousand voices proclaim the
abundance of life, notwithstanding the desolating effect of dry sunshine
on the plants and larger animals. The hylas make a delightfully pure and
tranquil music after sunset; and coyotes, the little, despised dogs of
the wilderness, brave, hardy fellows, looking like withered wisps of
hay, bark in chorus for hours. Mining-towns, most of them dead, and a
few living ones with bright bits of cultivation about them, occur at
long intervals along the belt, and cottages covered with climbing roses,
in the midst of orange and peach orchards, and sweet-scented hay-fields
in fertile flats where water for irrigation may be had. But they are
mostly far apart, and make scarce any mark in general views.

Every winter the High Sierra and the middle forest region get snow in
glorious abundance, and even the foot-hills are at times whitened. Then
all the range looks like a vast beveled wall of purest marble. The rough
places are then made smooth, the death and decay of the year is covered
gently and kindly, and the ground seems as clean as the sky. And though
silent in its flight from the clouds, and when it is taking its place on
rock, or tree, or grassy meadow, how soon the gentle snow finds a voice!
Slipping from the heights, gathering in avalanches
, it booms and roars
like thunder, and makes a glorious show as it sweeps down the
mountain-side, arrayed in long, silken streamers and wreathing, swirling
films of crystal dust.

The north half of the range is mostly covered with floods of lava, and
dotted with volcanoes and craters, some of them recent and perfect in
form, others in various stages of decay. The south half is composed of
granite nearly from base to summit, while a considerable number of
peaks, in the middle of the range, are capped with metamorphic slates,
among which are Mounts Dana and Gibbs to the east of Yosemite Valley.
Mount Whitney, the culminating point of the range near its southern
extremity, lifts its helmet-shaped crest to a height of nearly 14,700
feet. Mount Shasta, a colossal volcanic cone, rises to a height of
14,440 feet at the northern extremity, and forms a noble landmark for
all the surrounding region within a radius of a hundred miles. Residual
masses of volcanic rocks occur throughout most of the granitic southern
portion also, and a considerable number of old volcanoes on the flanks,
especially along the eastern base of the range near Mono Lake and
southward. But it is only to the northward that the entire range, from
base to summit, is covered with lava.

From the summit of Mount Whitney only granite is seen. Innumerable peaks
and spires but little lower than its own storm-beaten crags rise in
groups like forest-trees, in full view, segregated by canons of
tremendous depth and ruggedness. On Shasta nearly every feature in the
vast view speaks of the old volcanic fires. Far to the northward, in
Oregon, the icy volcanoes of Mount Pitt and the Three Sisters rise above
the dark evergreen woods. Southward innumerable smaller craters and
cones are distributed along the axis of the range and on each flank. Of
these, Lassen's Butte is the highest, being nearly 11,000 feet above
sea-level. Miles of its flanks are reeking and bubbling with hot
springs, many of them so boisterous and sulphurous they seem over ready
to become spoutin
g geysers like those of the Yellowstone.

The Cinder Cone near marks the most recent volcanic eruption in the
Sierra. It is a symmetrical truncated cone about 700 feet high, covered
with gray cinders and ashes, and has a regular unchanged crater on its
summit, in which a few small Two-leaved Pines are growing. These show
that the age of the cone is not less than eighty years. It stands
between two lakes, which a short time ago were one. Before the cone was
built, a flood of rough vesicular lava was poured into the lake, cutting
it in two, and, overflowing its banks, the fiery flood advanced into the
pine-woods, overwhelming the trees in its way, the charred ends of some
of which may still be seen projecting from beneath the snout of the
lava-stream where it came to rest. Later still there was an eruption of
ashes and loose obsidian cinders, probably from the same vent, which,
besides forming the Cinder Cone, scattered a heavy shower over the
surrounding woods for miles to a depth of from six inches to several
feet.

The history of this last Sierra eruption is also preserved in the
traditions of the Pitt River Indians. They tell of a fearful time of
darkness, when the sky was black with ashes and smoke that threatened
every living thing with death, and that when at length the sun appeared
once more it was red like blood.

Less recent craters in great numbers roughen the adjacent region; some
of them with lakes in their throats, others overgrown with trees and
flowers, Nature in these old hearths and firesides having literally
given beauty for ashes. On the northwest side of Mount Shasta there is a
subordinate cone about 3000 feet below the summit, which, has been
active subsequent to the breaking up of the main ice-cap that once
covered the mountain, as is shown by its comparatively unwasted crater
and the streams of unglaciated lava radiating from it. The main summit
is about a mile and a half in diameter, bounded by small crumbling peaks
and ridges, among which we seek in vain for the outlines of the ancient
cra
ter.

These ruinous masses, and the deep glacial grooves that flute the sides
of the mountain, show that it has been considerably lowered and wasted
by ice; how much we have no sure means of knowing. Just below the
extreme summit hot sulphurous gases and vapor issue from irregular
fissures, mixed with spray derived from melting snow, the last feeble
expression of the mighty force that built the mountain. Not in one great
convulsion was Shasta given birth. The crags of the summit and the
sections exposed by the glaciers down the sides display enough of its
internal framework to prove that comparatively long periods of
quiescence intervened between many distinct eruptions, during which the
cooling lavas ceased to flow, and became permanent additions to the bulk
of the growing mountain. With alternate haste and deliberation eruption
succeeded eruption till the old volcano surpassed even its present
sublime height.

[Illustration: MOUNT SHASTA, LOOKING SOUTHWEST.]

Standing on the icy top of this, the grandest of all the fire-mountains
of the Sierra, we can hardly fail to look forward to its next eruption.
Gardens, vineyards, homes have been planted confidingly on the flanks of
volcanoes which, after remaining steadfast for ages, have suddenly
blazed into violent action, and poured forth overwhelming floods of
fire. It is known that more than a thousand years of cool calm have
intervened between violent eruptions. Like gigantic geysers spouting
molten rock instead of water, volcanoes work and rest, and we have no
sure means of knowing whether they are dead when still, or only
sleeping.

Along the western base of the range a telling series of sedimentary
rocks containing the early history of the Sierra are now being studied.
But leaving for the present these first chapters, we see that only a
very short geological time ago, just before the coming on of that
winter of winters called the glacial period, a vast deluge of molten
rocks poured from many a chasm and crater on the flanks and summit of
the range, filling lake 
basins and river channels, and obliterating
nearly every existing feature on the northern portion. At length these
all-destroying floods ceased to flow. But while the great volcanic cones
built up along the axis still burned and smoked, the whole Sierra passed
under the domain of ice and snow. Then over the bald, featureless,
fire-blackened mountains, glaciers began to crawl, covering them from
the summits to the sea with a mantle of ice; and then with infinite
deliberation the work went on of sculpturing the range anew. These
mighty agents of erosion, halting never through unnumbered centuries,
crushed and ground the flinty lavas and granites beneath their crystal
folds, wasting and building until in the fullness of time the Sierra was
born again, brought to light nearly as we behold it today, with glaciers
and snow-crushed pines at the top of the range, wheat-fields and
orange-groves at the foot of it.

This change from icy darkness and death to life and beauty was slow, as
we count time, and is still going on, north and south, over all the
world wherever glaciers exist, whether in the form of distinct rivers,
as in Switzerland, Norway, the mountains of Asia, and the Pacific Coast;
or in continuous mantling folds, as in portions of Alaska, Greenland,
Franz-Joseph-Land, Nova Zembla, Spitzbergen, and the lands about the
South Pole. But in no country, as far as I know, may these majestic
changes be studied to better advantage than in the plains and mountains
of California.

Toward the close of the glacial period, when the snow-clouds became less
fertile and the melting waste of sunshine became greater, the lower
folds of the ice-sheet in California, discharging fleets of icebergs
into the sea, began to shallow and recede from the lowlands, and then
move slowly up the flanks of the Sierra in compliance with the changes
of climate. The great white mantle on the mountains broke up into a
series of glaciers more or less distinct and river-like, with many
tributaries, and these again were melted and divided into still 
smaller
glaciers, until now only a few of the smallest residual topmost branches
of the grand system exist on the cool <DW72>s of the summit peaks.

Plants and animals, biding their time, closely followed the retiring
ice, bestowing quick and joyous animation on the new-born landscapes.
Pine-trees marched up the sun-warmed moraines in long, hopeful files,
taking the ground and establishing themselves as soon as it was ready
for them; brown-spiked sedges fringed the shores of the newborn lakes;
young rivers roared in the abandoned channels of the glaciers; flowers
bloomed around the feet of the great burnished domes,--while with quick
fertility mellow beds of soil, settling and warming, offered food to
multitudes of Nature's waiting children, great and small, animals as
well as plants; mice, squirrels, marmots, deer, bears, elephants, etc.
The ground burst into bloom with magical rapidity, and the young forests
into bird-song: life in every form warming and sweetening and growing
richer as the years passed away over the mighty Sierra so lately
suggestive of death and consummate desolation only.

It is hard without long and loving study to realize the magnitude of the
work done on these mountains during the last glacial period by glaciers,
which are only streams of closely compacted snow-crystals. Careful study
of the phenomena presented goes to show that the pre-glacial condition
of the range was comparatively simple: one vast wave of stone in which a
thousand mountains, domes, canons, ridges, etc., lay concealed. And in
the development of these Nature chose for a tool not the earthquake or
lightning to rend and split asunder, not the stormy torrent or eroding
rain, but the tender snow-flowers noiselessly falling through unnumbered
centuries, the offspring of the sun and sea. Laboring harmoniously in
united strength they crushed and ground and wore away the rocks in their
march, making vast beds of soil, and at the same time developed and
fashioned the landscapes into the delightful variety of hill and dale
and lo
rdly mountain that mortals call beauty. Perhaps more than a mile
in average depth has the range been thus degraded during the last
glacial period,--a quantity of mechanical work almost inconceivably
great. And our admiration must be excited again and again as we toil and
study and learn that this vast job of rockwork, so far-reaching in its
influences, was done by agents so fragile and small as are these flowers
of the mountain clouds. Strong only by force of numbers, they carried
away entire mountains, particle by particle, block by block, and cast
them into the sea; sculptured, fashioned, modeled all the range, and
developed its predestined beauty. All these new Sierra landscapes were
evidently predestined, for the physical structure of the rocks on which
the features of the scenery depend was acquired while they lay at least
a mile deep below the pre-glacial surface. And it was while these
features were taking form in the depths of the range, the particles of
the rocks marching to their appointed places in the dark with reference
to the coming beauty, that the particles of icy vapor in the sky
marching to the same music assembled to bring them to the light. Then,
after their grand task was done, these bands of snow-flowers, these
mighty glaciers, were melted and removed as if of no more importance
than dew destined to last but an hour. Few, however, of Nature's agents
have left monuments so noble and enduring as they. The great granite
domes a mile high, the canons as deep, the noble peaks, the Yosemite
valleys, these, and indeed nearly all other features of the Sierra
scenery, are glacier monuments.

Contemplating the works of these flowers of the sky, one may easily
fancy them endowed with life: messengers sent down to work in the
mountain mines on errands of divine love. Silently flying through the
darkened air, swirling, glinting, to their appointed places, they seem
to have taken counsel together, saying, "Come, we are feeble; let us
help one another. We are many, and together we will be strong. Marching

in close, deep ranks, let us roll away the stones from these mountain
sepulchers, and set the landscapes free. Let us uncover these clustering
domes. Here let us carve a lake basin; there, a Yosemite Valley; here, a
channel for a river with fluted steps and brows for the plunge of
songful cataracts. Yonder let us spread broad sheets of soil, that man
and beast may be fed; and here pile trains of boulders for pines and
giant Sequoias. Here make ground for a meadow; there, for a garden and
grove, making it smooth and fine for small daisies and violets and beds
of heathy bryanthus, spicing it well with crystals, garnet feldspar, and
zircon." Thus and so on it has oftentimes seemed to me sang and planned
and labored the hearty snow-flower crusaders; and nothing that I can
write can possibly exaggerate the grandeur and beauty of their work.
Like morning mist they have vanished in sunshine, all save the few small
companies that still linger on the coolest mountainsides, and, as
residual glaciers, are still busily at work completing the last of the
lake basins, the last beds of soil, and the sculpture of some of the
highest peaks.

[Illustration: MOUNT HOOD.]

CHAPTER II

THE GLACIERS

Of the small residual glaciers mentioned in the preceding chapter, I
have found sixty-five in that portion of the range lying between
latitude 36 deg. 30' and 39 deg.. They occur singly or in small groups on the
north sides of the peaks of the High Sierra, sheltered beneath broad
frosty shadows, in amphitheaters of their own making, where the snow,
shooting down from the surrounding heights in avalanches, is most
abundant. Over two thirds of the entire number lie between latitude 37 deg.
and 38 deg., and form the highest fountains of the San Joaquin, Merced,
Tuolumne, and Owen's rivers.

The glaciers of Switzerland, like those of the Sierra, are mere wasting
remnants of mighty ice-floods that once filled the great valleys and
poured into the sea. So, also, are those of Norway, Asia, and South
America. Even the grand continuous mantles of 
ice that still cover
Greenland, Spitsbergen, Nova Zembla, Franz-Joseph-Land, parts of Alaska,
and the south polar region are shallowing and shrinking. Every glacier
in the world is smaller than it once was. All the world is growing
warmer, or the crop of snow-flowers is diminishing. But in contemplating
the condition of the glaciers of the world, we must bear in mind while
trying to account for the changes going on that the same sunshine that
wastes them builds them. Every glacier records the expenditure of an
enormous amount of sun-heat in lifting the vapor for the snow of which
it is made from the ocean to the mountains, as Tyndall strikingly shows.

The number of glaciers in the Alps, according to the Schlagintweit
brothers, is 1100, of which 100 may be regarded as primary, and the
total area of ice, snow, and _neve_ is estimated at 1177 square
miles, or an average for each glacier of little more than one square
mile. On the same authority, the average height above sea-level at which
they melt is about 7414 feet. The Grindelwald glacier descends below
4000 feet, and one of the Mont Blanc glaciers reaches nearly as low a
point. One of the largest of the Himalaya glaciers on the head waters of
the Ganges does not, according to Captain Hodgson, descend below 12,914
feet. The largest of the Sierra glaciers on Mount Shasta descends to
within 9500 feet of the level of the sea, which, as far as I have
observed, is the lowest point reached by any glacier within the bounds
of California, the average height of all being not far from 11,000 feet.

The changes that have taken place in the glacial conditions of the
Sierra from the time of greatest extension is well illustrated by the
series of glaciers of every size and form extending along the mountains
of the coast to Alaska. A general exploration of this instructive region
shows that to the north of California, through Oregon and Washington,
groups of active glaciers still exist on all the high volcanic cones of
the Cascade Range,--Mount Pitt, the Three Sisters, Mounts 
Jefferson,
Hood, St. Helens, Adams, Rainier, Baker, and others,--some of them of
considerable size, though none of them approach the sea. Of these
mountains Rainier, in Washington, is the highest and iciest. Its
dome-like summit, between 14,000 and 15,000 feet high, is capped with
ice, and eight glaciers, seven to twelve miles long, radiate from it as
a center, and form the sources of the principal streams of the State.
The lowest-descending of this fine group flows through beautiful forests
to within 3500 feet of the sea-level, and sends forth a river laden with
glacier mud and sand. On through British Columbia and southeastern
Alaska the broad, sustained mountain-chain, extending along the coast,
is generally glacier-bearing. The upper branches of nearly all the main
canons and fiords are occupied by glaciers, which gradually increase in
size, and descend lower until the high region between Mount Fairweather
and Mount St. Elias is reached, where a considerable number discharge
into the waters of the ocean. This is preeminently the ice-land of
Alaska and of the entire Pacific Coast.

Northward from here the glaciers gradually diminish in size and
thickness, and melt at higher levels. In Prince William Sound and Cook's
Inlet many fine glaciers are displayed, pouring from the surrounding
mountains; but to the north of latitude 62 deg. few, if any, glaciers
remain, the ground being mostly low and the snowfall light. Between
latitude 56 deg. and 60 deg. there are probably more than 5000 glaciers, not
counting the smallest. Hundreds of the largest size descend through the
forests to the level of the sea, or near it, though as far as my own
observations have reached, after a pretty thorough examination of the
region, not more than twenty-five discharge icebergs into the sea. All
the long high-walled fiords into which these great glaciers of the first
class flow are of course crowded with icebergs of every conceivable
form, which are detached with thundering noise at intervals of a few
minutes from an imposing ice-wall
 that is thrust forward into deep
water. But these Pacific Coast icebergs are small as compared with those
of Greenland and the Antarctic region, and only a few of them escape
from the intricate system of channels, with which this portion of the
coast is fringed, into the open sea. Nearly all of them are swashed and
drifted by wind and tide back and forth in the fiords until finally
melted by the ocean water, the sunshine, the warm winds, and the copious
rains of summer. Only one glacier on the coast, observed by Prof.
Russell, discharges its bergs directly into the open sea, at Icy Cape,
opposite Mount St. Elias. The southernmost of the glaciers that reach
the sea occupies a narrow, picturesque fiord about twenty miles to the
northwest of the mouth of the Stikeen River, in latitude 56 deg. 50'. The
fiord is called by the natives "Hutli," or Thunder Bay, from the noise
made by the discharge of the icebergs. About one degree farther north
there are four of these complete glaciers, discharging at the heads of
the long arms of Holkam Bay. At the head of the Tahkoo Inlet, still
farther north, there is one; and at the head and around the sides of
Glacier Bay, trending in a general northerly direction from Cross Sound
in latitude 58 deg. to 59 deg., there are seven of these complete glaciers
pouring bergs into the bay and its branches, and keeping up an eternal
thundering. The largest of this group, the Muir, has upward of 200
tributaries, and a width below the confluence of the main tributaries of
about twenty-five miles. Between the west side of this icy bay and the
ocean all the ground, high and low, excepting the peaks of the
Fairweather Range, is covered with a mantle of ice from 1000 to probably
3000 feet thick, which discharges by many distinct mouths.

[Illustration: MOUNT RAINIER FROM PARADISE VALLEY--NISQUALLY GLACIER.]

This fragmentary ice-sheet, and the immense glaciers about Mount St.
Elias, together with the multitude of separate river-like glaciers that
load the <DW72>s of the coast mountains, evidently
 once formed part of a
continuous ice-sheet that flowed over all the region hereabouts, and
only a comparatively short time ago extended as far southward as the
mouth of the Strait of Juan de Fuca, probably farther. All the islands
of the Alexander Archipelago, as well as the headlands and promontories
of the mainland, display telling traces of this great mantle that are
still fresh and unmistakable. They all have the forms of the greatest
strength with reference to the action of a vast rigid press of
oversweeping ice from the north and northwest, and their surfaces have a
smooth, rounded, overrubbed appearance, generally free from angles. The
intricate labyrinth of canals, channels, straits, passages, sounds,
narrows, etc. between the islands, and extending into the mainland, of
course manifest in their forms and trends and general characteristics
the same subordination to the grinding action of universal glaciation as
to their origin, and differ from the islands and banks of the fiords
only in being portions of the pre-glacial margin of the continent more
deeply eroded, and therefore covered by the ocean waters which flowed
into them as the ice was melted out of them. The formation and extension
of fiords in this manner is still going on, and may be witnessed in many
places in Glacier Bay, Yakutat Bay, and adjacent regions. That the
domain of the sea is being extended over the land by the wearing away of
its shores, is well known, but in these icy regions of Alaska, and even
as far south as Vancouver Island, the coast rocks have been so short a
time exposed to wave-action they are but little wasted as yet. In these
regions the extension of the sea effected by its own action in
post-glacial time is scarcely appreciable as compared with that effected
by ice-action.

Traces of the vanished glaciers made during the period of greater
extension abound on the Sierra as far south as latitude 36 deg.. Even the
polished rock surfaces, the most evanescent of glacial records, are
still found in a wonderfully perfect state 
of preservation on the upper
half of the middle portion of the range, and form the most striking of
all the glacial phenomena. They occur in large irregular patches in the
summit and middle regions, and though they have been subjected to the
action of the weather with its corroding storms for thousands of years,
their mechanical excellence is such that they still reflect the sunbeams
like glass, and attract the attention of every observer. The attention
of the mountaineer is seldom arrested by moraines, however regular and
high they may be, or by canons, however deep, or by rocks, however noble
in form and sculpture; but he stoops and rubs his hands admiringly on
the shining surfaces and trios hard to account for their mysterious
smoothness. He has seen the snow descending in avalanches, but concludes
this cannot be the work of snow, for he finds it where no avalanches
occur. Nor can water have done it, for he sees this smoothness glowing
on the sides and tops of the highest domes. Only the winds of all the
agents he knows seem capable of flowing in the directions indicated by
the scoring. Indians, usually so little curious about geological
phenomena, have come to me occasionally and asked me, "What makeum the
ground so smooth at Lake Tenaya?" Even horses and dogs gaze wonderingly
at the strange brightness of the ground, and smell the polished spaces
and place their feet cautiously on them when they come to them for the
first time, as if afraid of sinking. The most perfect of the polished
pavements and walls lie at an elevation of from 7000 to 9000 feet above
the sea, where the rock is compact silicious granite. Small dim patches
may be found as low as 3000 feet on the driest and most enduring
portions of sheer walls with a southern exposure, and on compact
swelling bosses partially protected from rain by a covering of large
boulders. On the north half of the range the striated and polished
surfaces are less common, not only because this part of the chain is
lower, but because the surface rocks are chiefly porous
 lavas subject to
comparatively rapid waste. The ancient moraines also, though well
preserved on most of the south half of the range, are nearly obliterated
to the northward, but then material is found scattered and
disintegrated.

A similar blurred condition of the superficial records of glacial action
obtains throughout most of Oregon, Washington, British Columbia, and
Alaska, due in great part to the action of excessive moisture. Even in
southeastern Alaska, where the most extensive glaciers on the continent
are, the more evanescent of the traces of their former greater
extension, though comparatively recent, are more obscure than those of
the ancient California glaciers whore the climate is drier and the rocks
more resisting.

These general views of the glaciers of the Pacific Coast will enable my
readers to see something of the changes that have taken place in
California, and will throw light on the residual glaciers of the High
Sierra.

Prior to the autumn of 1871 the glaciers of the Sierra were unknown. In
October of that year I discovered the Black Mountain Glacier in a
shadowy amphitheater between Black and Rod Mountains, two of the peaks
of the Merced group. This group is the highest portion of a spur that
straggles out from the main axis of the range in the direction of
Yosemite Valley. At the time of this interesting discovery I was
exploring the _neve_ amphitheaters of the group, and tracing the
courses of the ancient glaciers that once poured from its ample
fountains through the Illilouette Basin and the Yosemite Valley, not
expecting to find any active glaciers so far south in the land of
sunshine.

Beginning on the northwestern extremity of the group, I explored the
chief tributary basins in succession, their moraines, roches moutonnees,
and splendid glacier pavements, taking them in regular succession
without any reference to the time consumed in their study. The monuments
of the tributary that poured its ice from between Red and Black
Mountains I found to be the most interesting of them all; and
 when I saw
its magnificent moraines extending in majestic curves from the spacious
amphitheater between the mountains, I was exhilarated with the work that
lay before me. It was one of the golden days of the Sierra Indian
summer, when the rich sunshine glorifies every landscape however rocky
and cold, and suggests anything rather than glaciers. The path of the
vanished glacier was warm now, and shone in many places as if washed
with silver. The tall pines growing on the moraines stood transfigured
in the glowing light, the poplar groves on the levels of the basin were
masses of orange-yellow, and the late-blooming goldenrods added gold to
gold. Pushing on over my rosy glacial highway, I passed lake after lake
set in solid basins of granite, and many a thicket and meadow watered by
a stream that issues from the amphitheater and links the lakes together;
now wading through plushy bogs knee-deep in yellow and purple sphagnum;
now passing over bare rock. The main lateral moraines that bounded the
view on either hand are from 100 to nearly 200 feet high, and about as
regular as artificial embankments, and covered with a superb growth of
Silver Fir and Pine. But this garden and forest luxuriance was speedily
left behind. The trees were dwarfed as I ascended; patches of the alpine
bryanthus and cassiope began to appear, and arctic willows pressed into
flat carpets by the winter snow. The lakelets, which a few miles down
the valley were so richly embroidered with flowery meadows, had here, at
an elevation of 10,000 feet, only small brown mats of carex, leaving
bare rocks around more than half their shores. Yet amid this alpine
suppression the Mountain Pine bravely tossed his storm-beaten branches
on the ledges and buttresses of Red Mountain, some specimens being over
100 feet high, and 24 feet in circumference, seemingly as fresh and
vigorous as the giants of the lower zones.

Evening came on just as I got fairly within the portal of the main
amphitheater. It is about a mile wide, and a little less than two miles
long. 
The crumbling spurs and battlements of Red Mountain bound it on
the north, the somber, rudely sculptured precipices of Black Mountain on
the south, and a hacked, splintery _col_, curving around from
mountain to mountain, shuts it in on the east.

I chose a camping-ground on the brink of one of the lakes where a
thicket of Hemlock Spruce sheltered me from the night wind. Then, after
making a tin-cupful of tea, I sat by my camp-fire reflecting on the
grandeur and significance of the glacial records I had seen. As the
night advanced the mighty rock walls of my mountain mansion seemed to
come nearer, while the starry sky in glorious brightness stretched
across like a ceiling from wall to wall, and fitted closely down into
all the spiky irregularities of the summits. Then, after a long fireside
rest and a glance at my note-book, I cut a few leafy branches for a bed,
and fell into the clear, death-like sleep of the tired mountaineer.

Early next morning I set out to trace the grand old glacier that had
done so much for the beauty of the Yosemite region back to its farthest
fountains, enjoying the charm that every explorer feels in Nature's
untrodden wildernesses. The voices of the mountains were still asleep.
The wind scarce stirred the pine-needles. The sun was up, but it was yet
too cold for the birds and the few burrowing animals that dwell here.
Only the stream, cascading from pool to pool, seemed to be wholly awake.
Yet the spirit of the opening day called to action. The sunbeams came
streaming gloriously through the jagged openings of the _col_,
glancing on the burnished pavements and lighting the silvery lakes,
while every sun-touched rock burned white on its edges like melting iron
in a furnace. Passing round the north shore of my camp lake I followed
the central stream past many cascades from lakelet to lakelet. The
scenery became more rigidly arctic, the Dwarf Pines and Hemlocks
disappeared, and the stream was bordered with icicles. As the sun rose
higher rocks were loosened on shattered portions of the cliff
s, and came
down in rattling avalanches, echoing wildly from crag to crag.

The main lateral moraines that extend from the jaws of the amphitheater
into the Illilouette Basin are continued in straggling masses along the
walls of the amphitheater, while separate boulders, hundreds of tons in
weight, are left stranded here and there out in the middle of the
channel. Here, also, I observed a series of small terminal moraines
ranged along the south wall of the amphitheater, corresponding in size
and form with the shadows cast by the highest portions. The meaning of
this correspondence between moraines and shadows was afterward made
plain. Tracing the stream back to the last of its chain of lakelets, I
noticed a deposit of fine gray mud on the bottom except where the force
of the entering current had prevented its settling. It looked like the
mud worn from a grindstone, and I at once suspected its glacial origin,
for the stream that was carrying it came gurgling out of the base of a
raw moraine that seemed in process of formation. Not a plant or
weather-stain was visible on its rough, unsettled surface. It is from 60
to over 100 feet high, and plunges forward at an angle of 38 deg..
Cautiously picking my way, I gained the top of the moraine and was
delighted to see a small but well characterized glacier swooping down
from the gloomy precipices of Black Mountain in a finely graduated curve
to the moraine on which I stood. The compact ice appeared on all the
lower portions of the glacier, though gray with dirt and stones embedded
in it. Farther up the ice disappeared beneath coarse granulated snow.
The surface of the glacier was further characterized by dirt bands and
the outcropping edges of the blue veins, showing the laminated structure
of the ice. The uppermost crevasse, or "bergschrund," where the
_neve_ was attached to the mountain, was from 12 to 14 feet wide,
and was bridged in a few places by the remains of snow avalanches.
Creeping along the edge of the schrund, holding on with benumbed
fingers, I discovered c
lear sections where the bedded structure was
beautifully revealed. The surface snow, though sprinkled with stones
shot down from the cliffs, was in some places almost pure, gradually
becoming crystalline and changing to whitish porous ice of different
shades of color, and this again changing at a depth of 20 or 30 feet to
blue ice, some of the ribbon-like bands of which were nearly pure, and
blended with the paler bands in the most gradual and delicate manner
imaginable. A series of rugged zigzags enabled me to make my way down
into the weird under-world of the crevasse. Its chambered hollows were
hung with a multitude of clustered icicles, amid which pale, subdued
light pulsed and shimmered with indescribable loveliness. Water dripped
and tinkled overhead, and from far below came strange, solemn murmurings
from currents that were feeling their way through veins and fissures in
the dark. The chambers of a glacier are perfectly enchanting,
notwithstanding one feels out of place in their frosty beauty. I was
soon cold in my shirt-sleeves, and the leaning wall threatened to engulf
me; yet it was hard to leave the delicious music of the water and the
lovely light. Coming again to the surface, I noticed boulders of every
size on their journeys to the terminal moraine--journeys of more than a
hundred years, without a single stop, night or day, winter or summer.

The sun gave birth to a network of sweet-voiced rills that ran
gracefully down the glacier, curling and swirling in their shining
channels, and cutting clear sections through the porous surface-ice into
the solid blue, where the structure of the glacier was beautifully
illustrated.

The series of small terminal moraines which I had observed in the
morning, along the south wall of the amphitheater, correspond in every
way with the moraine of this glacier, and their distribution with
reference to shadows was now understood. When the climatic changes came
on that caused the melting and retreat of the main glacier that filled
the amphitheater, a series of residual 
glaciers were left in the cliff
shadows, under the protection of which they lingered, until they formed
the moraines we are studying. Then, as the snow became still less
abundant, all of them vanished in succession, except the one just
described; and the cause of its longer life is sufficiently apparent in
the greater area of snow-basin it drains, and its more perfect
protection from wasting sunshine. How much longer this little glacier
will last depends, of course, on the amount of snow it receives from
year to year, as compared with melting waste.

After this discovery, I made excursions over all the High Sierra,
pushing my explorations summer after summer, and discovered that what at
first sight in the distance looked like extensive snow-fields, wore in
great part glaciers, busily at work completing the sculpture of the
summit-peaks so grandly blocked out by their giant predecessors.

On August 21, I set a series of stakes in the Maclure Glacier, near
Mount Lyell, and found its rate of motion to be little more than an inch
a day in the middle, showing a great contrast to the Muir Glacier in
Alaska, which, near the front, flows at a rate of from five to ten feet
in twenty-four hours. Mount Shasta has three glaciers, but Mount
Whitney, although it is the highest mountain in the range, does not now
cherish a single glacier. Small patches of lasting snow and ice occur on
its northern <DW72>s, but they are shallow, and present no well marked
evidence of glacial motion. Its sides, however, are scored and polished
in many places by the action of its ancient glaciers that flowed east
and west as tributaries of the great glaciers that once filled the
valleys of the Kern and Owen's rivers.

CHAPTER III

THE SNOW

The first snow that whitens the Sierra, usually falls about the end of
October or early in November, to a depth of a few inches, after months
of the most charming Indian summer weather imaginable. But in a few
days, this light covering mostly melts from the <DW72>s exposed to the
sun and causes but little appre
hension on the part of mountaineers who
may be lingering among the high peaks at this time. The first general
winter storm that yields snow that is to form a lasting portion of the
season's supply, seldom breaks on the mountains before the end of
November. Then, warned by the sky, cautions mountaineers, together with
the wild sheep, deer, and most of the birds and bears, make haste to the
lowlands or foot-hills; and burrowing marmots, mountain beavers,
wood-rats, and such people go into winter quarters, some of them not
again to see the light of day until the general awakening and
resurrection of the spring in June or July. The first heavy fall is
usually from about two to four feet in depth. Then, with intervals of
splendid sunshine, storm succeeds storm, heaping snow on snow, until
thirty to fifty feet has fallen. But on account of its settling and
compacting, and the almost constant waste from melting and evaporation,
the average depth actually found at any time seldom exceeds ten feet in
the forest region, or fifteen feet along the <DW72>s of the summit peaks.

Even during the coldest weather evaporation never wholly ceases, and the
sunshine that abounds between the storms is sufficiently powerful to
melt the surface more or less through all the winter months. Waste from
melting also goes on to some extent on the bottom from heat stored up in
the rocks, and given off slowly to the snow in contact with them, as is
shown by the rising of the streams on all the higher regions after the
first snowfall, and their steady sustained flow all winter.

The greater portion of the snow deposited around the lofty summits of
the range falls in small crisp flakes and broken crystals, or, when
accompanied by strong winds and low temperature, the crystals, instead
of being locked together in their fall to form tufted flakes, are beaten
and broken into meal and fine dust. But down in the forest region the
greater portion comes gently to the ground, light and feathery, some of
the flakes in mild weather being nearly an inch in 
diameter, and it is
evenly distributed and kept from drifting to any great extent by the
shelter afforded by the large trees. Every tree during the progress of
gentle storms is loaded with, fairy bloom at the coldest and darkest
time of year, bending the branches, and hushing every singing needle.
But as soon as the storm is over, and the sun shines, the snow at once
begins to shift and settle and fall from the branches in miniature
avalanches, and the white forest soon becomes green again. The snow on
the ground also settles and thaws every bright day, and freezes at
night, until it becomes coarsely granulated, and loses every trace of
its rayed crystalline structure, and then a man may walk firmly over its
frozen surface as if on ice. The forest region up to an elevation of
7000 feet is usually in great part free from snow in June, but at this
time the higher regions are still heavy-laden, and are not touched by
spring weather to any considerable extent before the middle or end of
July.

One of the most striking effects of the snow on the mountains is the
burial of the rivers and small lakes.

 As the snow fa's in the river
 A moment white, then lost forever,

sang Burns, in illustrating the fleeting character of human pleasure.
The first snowflakes that fall into the Sierra rivers vanish thus
suddenly; but in great storms, when the temperature is low, the
abundance of the snow at length chills the water nearly to the
freezing-point, and then, of course, it ceases to melt and consume the
snow so suddenly. The falling flakes and crystals form, cloud-like
masses of blue sludge, which are swept forward with the current and
carried down to warmer climates many miles distant, while some are
lodged against logs and rocks and projecting points of the banks, and
last for days, piled high above the level of the water, and show white
again, instead of being at once "lost forever," while the rivers
themselves are at length lost for months during the snowy period. The
snow is first built out from the banks in bossy, over-c
urling drifts,
compacting and cementing until the streams are spanned. They then flow
in the dark beneath a continuous covering across the snowy zone, which
is about thirty miles wide. All the Sierra rivers and their tributaries
in these high regions are thus lost every winter, as if another glacial
period had come on. Not a drop of running water is to be seen excepting
at a few points where large falls occur, though the rush and rumble of
the heavier currents may still be heard. Toward spring, when the weather
is warm during the day and frosty at night, repeated thawing and
freezing and new layers of snow render the bridging-masses dense and
firm, so that one may safely walk across the streams, or even lead a
horse across them without danger of falling through. In June the
thinnest parts of the winter ceiling, and those most exposed to
sunshine, begin to give way, forming dark, rugged-edged, pit-like sinks,
at the bottom of which the rushing water may be seen. At the end of June
only here and there may the mountaineer find a secure snow-bridge. The
most lasting of the winter bridges, thawing from below as well as from
above, because of warm currents of air passing through the tunnels, are
strikingly arched and sculptured; and by the occasional freezing of the
oozing, dripping water of the ceiling they become brightly and
picturesquely icy. In some of the reaches, where there is a free margin,
we may walk through them. Small skylights appearing here and there,
these tunnels are not very dark. The roaring river fills all the arching
way with impressively loud reverberating music, which is sweetened at
times by the ouzel, a bird that is not afraid to go wherever a stream
may go, and to sing wherever a stream sings.

All the small alpine pools and lakelets are in like manner obliterated
from the winter landscapes, either by being first frozen and then
covered by snow, or by being filled in by avalanches. The first
avalanche of the season shot into a lake basin may perhaps find the
surface frozen. Then there is a gra
nd crashing of breaking ice and
dashing of waves mingled with the low, deep booming of the avalanche.
Detached masses of the invading snow, mixed with fragments of ice, drift
about in sludgy, island-like heaps, while the main body of it forms a
talus with its base wholly or in part resting on the bottom of the
basin, as controlled by its depth and the size of the avalanche. The
next avalanche, of course, encroaches still farther, and so on with each
in succession until the entire basin may be filled and its water sponged
up or displaced. This huge mass of sludge, more or less mixed with sand,
stones, and perhaps timber, is frozen to a considerable depth, and much
sun-heat is required to thaw it. Some of these unfortunate lakelets are
not clear of ice and snow until near the end of summer. Others are never
quite free, opening only on the side opposite the entrance of the
avalanches. Some show only a narrow crescent of water lying between the
shore and sheer bluffs of icy compacted snow, masses of which breaking
off float in front like icebergs in a miniature Arctic Ocean, while the
avalanche heaps leaning back against the mountains look like small
glaciers. The frontal cliffs are in some instances quite picturesque,
and with the berg-dotted waters in front of them lighted with sunshine
are exceedingly beautiful. It often happens that while one side of a
lake basin is hopelessly snow-buried and frozen, the other, enjoying
sunshine, is adorned with beautiful flower-gardens. Some of the smaller
lakes are extinguished in an instant by a heavy avalanche either of
rocks or snow. The rolling, sliding, ponderous mass entering on one side
sweeps across the bottom and up the opposite side, displacing the water
and even scraping the basin clean, and shoving the accumulated rocks and
sediments up the farther bank and taking full possession. The dislodged
water is in part absorbed, but most of it is sent around the front of
the avalanche and down the channel of the outlet, roaring and hurrying
as if frightened and glad to esca
pe.

SNOW-BANNERS

The most magnificent storm phenomenon I ever saw, surpassing in showy
grandeur the most imposing effects of clouds, floods, or avalanches, was
the peaks of the High Sierra, back of Yosemite Valley, decorated with
snow-banners. Many of the starry snow-flowers, out of which these
banners are made, fall before they are ripe, while most of those that do
attain perfect development as six-rayed crystals glint and chafe against
one another in their fall through the frosty air, and are broken into
fragments. This dry fragmentary snow is still further prepared for the
formation of banners by the action of the wind. For, instead of finding
rest at once, like the snow which falls into the tranquil depths of the
forests, it is rolled over and over, beaten against rock-ridges, and
swirled in pits and hollows, like boulders, pebbles, and sand in the
pot-holes of a river, until finally the delicate angles of the crystals
are worn off, and the whole mass is reduced to dust. And whenever
storm-winds find this prepared snow-dust in a loose condition on exposed
<DW72>s, where there is a free upward sweep to leeward, it is tossed back
into the sky, and borne onward from peak to peak in the form of banners
or cloudy drifts, according to the velocity of the wind and the
conformation of the <DW72>s up or around which it is driven. While thus
flying through the air, a small portion makes good its escape, and
remains in the sky as vapor. But far the greater part, after being
driven into the sky again and again, is at length locked fast in bossy
drifts, or in the wombs of glaciers, some of it to remain silent and
rigid for centuries before it is finally melted and sent singing down
the mountainsides to the sea.

Yet, notwithstanding the abundance of winter snow-dust in the mountains,
and the frequency of high winds, and the length of time the dust remains
loose and exposed to their action, the occurrence of well-formed banners
is, for causes we shall hereafter note, comparatively rare. I have seen
only one display of th
is kind that seemed in every way perfect. This was
in the winter of 1873, when the snow-laden summits were swept by a wild
"norther." I happened at the time to be wintering in Yosemite Valley,
that sublime Sierra temple where every day one may see the grandest
sights. Yet even here the wild gala-day of the north wind seemed
surpassingly glorious. I was awakened in the morning by the rocking of
my cabin and the beating of pine-burs on the roof. Detached torrents and
avalanches from the main wind-flood overhead were rushing wildly down
the narrow side canons, and over the precipitous walls, with loud
resounding roar, rousing the pines to enthusiastic action, and making
the whole valley vibrate as though it were an instrument being played.

But afar on the lofty exposed peaks of the range standing so high in the
sky, the storm was expressing itself in still grander characters, which
I was soon to see in all their glory. I had long been anxious to study
some points in the structure of the ice-cone that is formed every winter
at the foot of the upper Yosemite fall, but the blinding spray by which
it is invested had hitherto prevented me from making a sufficiently near
approach. This morning the entire body of the fall was torn into gauzy
shreds, and blown horizontally along the face of the cliff, leaving the
cone dry; and while making my way to the top of an overlooking ledge to
seize so favorable an opportunity to examine the interior of the cone,
the peaks of the Merced group came in sight over the shoulder of the
South Dome, each waving a resplendent banner against the blue sky, as
regular in form, and as firm in texture, as if woven of fine silk. So
rare and splendid a phenomenon, of course, overbore all other
considerations, and I at once let the ice-cone go, and began to force my
way out of the valley to some dome or ridge sufficiently lofty to
command a general view of the main summits, feeling assured that I
should find them bannered still more gloriously; nor was I in the least
disappointed. Indian Canon, thr
ough which I climbed, was choked with
snow that had been shot down in avalanches from the high cliffs on
either side, rendering the ascent difficult; but inspired by the roaring
storm, the tedious wallowing brought no fatigue, and in four hours I
gained the top of a ridge above the valley, 8000 feet high. And there in
bold relief, like a clear painting, appeared a most imposing scene.
Innumerable peaks, black and sharp, rose grandly into the dark blue sky,
their bases set in solid white, their sides streaked and splashed with
snow, like ocean rocks with foam; and from every summit, all free and
unconfused, was streaming a beautiful silky silvery banner, from half a
mile to a mile in length, slender at the point of attachment, then
widening gradually as it extended from the peak until it was about 1000
or 1500 feet in breadth, as near as I could estimate. The cluster of
peaks called the "Crown of the Sierra," at the head of the Merced and
Tuolumne rivers,--Mounts Dana, Gibbs, Conness, Lyell, Maclure, Ritter,
with their nameless compeers,--each had its own refulgent banner, waving
with a clearly visible motion in the sunglow, and there was not a single
cloud in the sky to mar their simple grandeur. Fancy yourself standing
on this Yosemite ridge looking eastward. You notice a strange garish
glitter in the air. The gale drives wildly overhead with a fierce,
tempestuous roar, but its violence is not felt, for you are looking
through a sheltered opening in the woods as through a window. There, in
the immediate foreground of your picture, rises a majestic forest of
Silver Fir blooming in eternal freshness, the foliage yellow-green, and
the snow beneath the trees strewn with their beautiful plumes, plucked
off by the wind. Beyond, and extending over all the middle ground, are
somber swaths of pine, interrupted by huge swelling ridges and domes;
and just beyond the dark forest you see the monarchs of the High Sierra
waving their magnificent banners. They are twenty miles away, but you
would not wish them nearer, for every
 feature is distinct, and the whole
glorious show is seen in its right proportions. After this general view,
mark how sharply the dark snowless ribs and buttresses and summits of
the peaks are defined, excepting the portions veiled by the banners, and
how delicately their sides are streaked with snow, where it has come to
rest in narrow flutings and gorges. Mark, too, how grandly the banners
wave as the wind is deflected against their sides, and how trimly each
is attached to the very summit of its peak, like a streamer at a
masthead; how smooth and silky they are in texture, and how finely their
fading fringes are penciled on the azure sky. See how dense and opaque
they are at the point of attachment, and how filmy and translucent
toward the end, so that the peaks back of them are seen dimly, as though
you were looking through ground glass. Yet again observe how some of the
longest, belonging to the loftiest summits, stream perfectly free all
the way across intervening notches and passes from peak to peak, while
others overlap and partly hide each other. And consider how keenly every
particle of this wondrous cloth of snow is flashing out jets of light.
These are the main features of the beautiful and terrible picture as
seen from the forest window; and it would still be surpassingly glorious
were the fore- and middle-grounds obliterated altogether, leaving only
the black peaks, the white banners, and the blue sky.

Glancing now in a general way at the formation of snow-banners, we find
that the main causes of the wondrous beauty and perfection of those we
have been contemplating were the favorable direction and great force of
the wind, the abundance of snow-dust, and the peculiar conformation of
the <DW72>s of the peaks. It is essential not only that the wind should
move with great velocity and steadiness to supply a sufficiently copious
and continuous stream of snow-dust, but that it should come from the
north. No perfect banner is ever hung on the Sierra peaks by a south
wind. Had the gale that day blown from
 the south, leaving other
conditions unchanged, only a dull, confused, fog-like drift would have
been produced; for the snow, instead of being spouted up over the tops
of the peaks in concentrated currents to be drawn out as streamers,
would have been shed off around the sides, and piled down into the
glacier wombs. The cause of the concentrated action of the north wind is
found in the peculiar form of the north sides of the peaks, where the
amphitheaters of the residual glaciers are. In general the south sides
are convex and irregular, while the north sides are concave both in
their vertical and horizontal sections; the wind in ascending these
curves converges toward the summits, carrying the snow in concentrating
currents with it, shooting it almost straight up into the air above the
peaks, from which it is then carried away in a horizontal direction.

This difference in form between the north and south sides of the peaks
was almost wholly produced by the difference in the kind and quantity of
the glaciation to which they have been subjected, the north sides having
been hollowed by residual shadow-glaciers of a form that never existed
on the sun-beaten sides.

It appears, therefore, that shadows in great part determine not only the
forms of lofty icy mountains, but also those of the snow-banners that
the wild winds hang on them.

CHAPTER IV

A NEAR VIEW OF THE HIGH SIERRA

Early one bright morning in the middle of Indian summer, while the
glacier meadows were still crisp with frost crystals, I set out from the
foot of Mount Lyell, on my way down to Yosemite Valley, to replenish my
exhausted store of bread and tea. I had spent the past summer, as many
preceding ones, exploring the glaciers that lie on the head waters of
the San Joaquin, Tuolumne, Merced, and Owen's rivers; measuring and
studying their movements, trends, crevasses, moraines, etc., and the
part they had played during the period of their greater extension in the
creation and development of the landscapes of this alpine wonderland.
The time for this
 kind of work was nearly over for the year, and I began
to look forward with delight to the approaching winter with its wondrous
storms, when I would be warmly snow-bound in my Yosemite cabin with
plenty of bread and books; but a tinge of regret came on when I
considered that possibly I might not see this favorite region again
until the next summer, excepting distant views from the heights about
the Yosemite walls.

To artists, few portions of the High Sierra are, strictly speaking,
picturesque. The whole massive uplift of the range is one great picture,
not clearly divisible into smaller ones; differing much in this respect
from the older, and what may be called, riper mountains of the Coast
Range. All the landscapes of the Sierra, as we have seen, were born
again, remodeled from base to summit by the developing ice-floods of the
last glacial winter. But all those new landscapes were not brought forth
simultaneously; some of the highest, where the ice lingered longest, are
tens of centuries younger than those of the warmer regions below them.
In general, the younger the mountain-landscapes,--younger, I mean, with
reference to the time of their emergence from the ice of the glacial
period,--the less separable are they into artistic bits capable of being
made into warm, sympathetic, lovable pictures with appreciable humanity
in them.

Here, however, on the head waters of the Tuolumne, is a group of wild
peaks on which the geologist may say that the sun has but just begun to
shine, which is yet in a high degree picturesque, and in its main
features so regular and evenly balanced as almost to appear
conventional--one somber cluster of snow-laden peaks with gray
pine-fringed granite bosses braided around its base, the whole surging
free into the sky from the head of a magnificent valley, whose lofty
walls are beveled away on both sides so as to embrace it all without
admitting anything not strictly belonging to it. The foreground was now
aflame with autumn colors, brown and purple and gold, ripe in the mellow
sunshin
e; contrasting brightly with the deep, cobalt blue of the sky,
and the black and gray, and pure, spiritual white of the rocks and
glaciers. Down through the midst, the young Tuolumne was seen pouring
from its crystal fountains, now resting in glassy pools as if changing
back again into ice, now leaping in white cascades as if turning to
snow; gliding right and left between granite bosses, then sweeping on
through the smooth, meadowy levels of the valley, swaying pensively from
side to side with calm, stately gestures past dipping willows and
sedges, and around groves of arrowy pine; and throughout its whole
eventful course, whether flowing fast or slow, singing loud or low, ever
filling the landscape with spiritual animation, and manifesting the
grandeur of its sources in every movement and tone.

Pursuing my lonely way down the valley, I turned again and again to gaze
on the glorious picture, throwing up my arms to inclose it as in a
frame. After long ages of growth in the darkness beneath the glaciers,
through sunshine and storms, it seemed now to be ready and waiting for
the elected artist, like yellow wheat for the reaper; and I could not
help wishing that I might carry colors and brushes with me on my
travels, and learn to paint. In the mean time I had to be content with
photographs on my mind and sketches in my note-books. At length, after I
had rounded a precipitous headland that puts out from the west wall of
the valley, every peak vanished from sight, and I pushed rapidly along
the frozen meadows, over the divide between the waters of the Merced and
Tuolumne, and down through the forests that clothe the <DW72>s of Cloud's
Rest, arriving in Yosemite in due time--which, with me, is _any_
time. And, strange to say, among the first people I met here were two
artists who, with letters of introduction, were awaiting my return. They
inquired whether in the course of my explorations in the adjacent
mountains I had ever come upon a landscape suitable for a large
painting; whereupon I began a description of the on
e that had so lately
excited my admiration. Then, as I went on further and further into
details, their faces began to glow, and I offered to guide them to it,
while they declared that they would gladly follow, far or near,
whithersoever I could spare the time to lead them.

Since storms might come breaking down through the fine weather at any
time, burying the colors in snow, and cutting off the artists' retreat,
I advised getting ready at once.

I led them out of the valley by the Vernal and Nevada Falls, thence over
the main dividing ridge to the Big Tuolumne Meadows, by the old Mono
trail, and thence along the upper Tuolumne River to its head. This was
my companions' first excursion into the High Sierra, and as I was almost
always alone in my mountaineering, the way that the fresh beauty was
reflected in their faces made for me a novel and interesting study. They
naturally were affected most of all by the colors--the intense azure of
the sky, the purplish grays of the granite, the red and browns of dry
meadows, and the translucent purple and crimson of huckleberry bogs; the
flaming yellow of aspen groves, the silvery flashing of the streams, and
the bright green and blue of the glacier lakes. But the general
expression of the scenery--rocky and savage--seemed sadly disappointing;
and as they threaded the forest from ridge to ridge, eagerly scanning
the landscapes as they were unfolded, they said: "All this is huge and
sublime, but we see nothing as yet at all available for effective
pictures. Art is long, and art is limited, you know; and here are
foregrounds, middle-grounds, backgrounds, all alike; bare rock-waves,
woods, groves, diminutive flecks of meadow, and strips of glittering
water." "Never mind," I replied, "only bide a wee, and I will show you
something you will like."

At length, toward the end of the second day, the Sierra Crown began to
come into view, and when we had fairly rounded the projecting headland
before mentioned, the whole picture stood revealed in the flush of the
alpenglow. Their enth
usiasm was excited beyond bounds, and the more
impulsive of the two, a young Scotchman, dashed ahead, shouting and
gesticulating and tossing his arms in the air like a madman. Here, at
last, was a typical alpine landscape.

After feasting awhile on the view, I proceeded to make camp in a
sheltered grove a little way back from the meadow, where pine-boughs
could be obtained for beds, and where there was plenty of dry wood for
fires, while the artists ran here and there, along the river-bends and
up the sides of the canon, choosing foregrounds for sketches. After
dark, when our tea was made and a rousing fire had been built, we began
to make our plans. They decided to remain several days, at the least,
while I concluded to make an excursion in the mean time to the untouched
summit of Ritter.

It was now about the middle of October, the springtime of snow-flowers.
The first winter-clouds had already bloomed, and the peaks were strewn
with fresh crystals, without, however, affecting the climbing to any
dangerous extent. And as the weather was still profoundly calm, and the
distance to the foot of the mountain only a little more than a day, I
felt that I was running no great risk of being storm-bound.

Mount Ritter is king of the mountains of the middle portion of the High
Sierra, as Shasta of the north and Whitney of the south sections.
Moreover, as far as I know, it had never been climbed. I had explored
the adjacent wilderness summer after summer, but my studies thus far had
never drawn me to the top of it. Its height above sea-level is about
13,300 feet, and it is fenced round by steeply inclined glaciers, and
canons of tremendous depth and ruggedness, which render it almost
inaccessible. But difficulties of this kind only exhilarate the
mountaineer.

Next morning, the artists went heartily to their work and I to mine.
Former experiences had given good reason to know that passionate storms,
invisible as yet, might be brooding in the calm sun-gold; therefore,
before bidding farewell, I warned the artists not to be 
alarmed should I
fail to appear before a week or ten days, and advised them, in case a
snow-storm should set in, to keep up big fires and shelter themselves as
best they could, and on no account to become frightened and attempt to
seek their way back to Yosemite alone through the drifts.

My general plan was simply this: to scale the canon, wall, cross over to
the eastern flank of the range, and then make my way southward to the
northern spurs of Mount Ritter in compliance with the intervening
topography; for to push on directly southward from camp through the
innumerable peaks and pinnacles that adorn this portion of the axis of
the range, however interesting, would take too much time, besides being
extremely difficult and dangerous at this time of year.

All my first day was pure pleasure; simply mountaineering indulgence,
crossing the dry pathways of the ancient glaciers, tracing happy
streams, and learning the habits of the birds and marmots in the groves
and rocks. Before I had gone a mile from camp, I came to the foot of a
white cascade that beats its way down a rugged gorge in the canon wall,
from a height of about nine hundred feet, and pours its throbbing waters
into the Tuolumne. I was acquainted with its fountains, which,
fortunately, lay in my course. What a fine traveling companion it proved
to be, what songs it sang, and how passionately it told the mountain's
own joy! Gladly I climbed along its dashing border, absorbing its divine
music, and bathing from time to time in waftings of irised spray.
Climbing higher, higher, now beauty came streaming on the sight: painted
meadows, late-blooming gardens, peaks of rare architecture, lakes here
and there, shining like silver, and glimpses of the forested middle
region and the yellow lowlands far in the west. Beyond the range I saw
the so-called Mono Desert, lying dreamily silent in thick purple
light--a desert of heavy sun-glare beheld from a desert of ice-burnished
granite. Here the waters divide, shouting in glorious enthusiasm, and
falling eastward to v
anish in the volcanic sands and dry sky of the
Great Basin, or westward to the Great Valley of California, and thence
through the Bay of San Francisco and the Golden Gate to the sea.

Passing a little way down over the summit until I had reached an
elevation of about 10,000 feet, I pushed on southward toward a group of
savage peaks that stand guard about Ritter on the north and west,
groping my way, and dealing instinctively with every obstacle as it
presented itself. Here a huge gorge would be found cutting across my
path, along the dizzy edge of which I scrambled until some less
precipitous point was discovered where I might safely venture to the
bottom and then, selecting some feasible portion of the opposite wall,
reascend with the same slow caution. Massive, flat-topped spurs
alternate with the gorges, plunging abruptly from the shoulders of the
snowy peaks, and planting their feet in the warm desert. These were
everywhere marked and adorned with characteristic sculptures of the
ancient glaciers that swept over this entire region like one vast
ice-wind, and the polished surfaces produced by the ponderous flood are
still so perfectly preserved that in many places the sunlight reflected
from them is about as trying to the eyes as sheets of snow.

God's glacial-mills grind slowly, but they have been kept in motion long
enough in California to grind sufficient soil for a glorious abundance
of life, though most of the grist has been carried to the lowlands,
leaving these high regions comparatively lean and bare; while the
post-glacial agents of erosion have not yet furnished sufficient
available food over the general surface for more than a few tufts of the
hardiest plants, chiefly carices and eriogonae. And it is interesting to
learn in this connection that the sparseness and repressed character of
the vegetation at this height is caused more by want of soil than by
harshness of climate; for, here and there, in sheltered hollows
(countersunk beneath the general surface) into which a few rods of
well-ground morai
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Stan Goodman, Mary Meehan
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

 OLD LADY MARY.

 A STORY OF THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN.

 By Margaret O. (Wilson) Oliphant

I

She was very old, and therefore it was very hard for her to make up her
mind to die. I am aware that this is not at all the general view, but
that it is believed, as old age must be near death, that it prepares the
soul for that inevitable event. It is not so, however, in many cases. In
youth we are still so near the unseen out of which we came, that death is
rather pathetic than tragic,--a thing that touches all hearts, but to
which, in many cases, the young hero accommodates himself sweetly and
courageously. And amid the storms and burdens of middle life there are
many times when we would fain push open the door that stands ajar, and
behind which there is ease for all our pains, or at least rest, if
nothing more. But age, which has gone through both these phases, is apt,
out of long custom and habit, to regard the matter from a different view.
All things that are violent have passed out of its life,--no more strong
emotions, such as rend the heart; no great labors, bringing after them
the weariness which is unto death; but the calm of an existence which is
enough for its needs, which affords the moderate amount of comfort and
pleasure for which its being is now adapted, and of which there seems no
reason that there should ever be any end. To passion, to joy, to anguish,
an end must come; but mere gentle living, determined by a framework of
gentle rules and habits--why should that ever be ended? When a soul has
got to this retirement and is content in it, it becomes very hard to die;
hard to accept the necessity of dying, and to accustom one's self to the
idea, and still harder to consent to carry it out.

The woman who is the subject of the following narrative was in this
position. She had lived through almost everything that is to be found in
life. She had been beautiful in her youth, and had enjoyed all the
triumphs of beauty; had been
 intoxicated with flattery, and triumphant in
conquest, and mad with jealousy and the bitterness of defeat when it
became evident that her day was over. She had never been a bad woman, or
false, or unkind; but she had thrown herself with all her heart into
those different stages of being, and had suffered as much as she enjoyed,
according to the unfailing usage of life. Many a day during these storms
and victories, when things went against her, when delights did not
satisfy her, she had thrown out a cry into the wide air of the universe
and wished to die. And then she had come to the higher table-land of
life, and had borne all the spites of fortune,--had been poor and rich,
and happy and sorrowful; had lost and won a hundred times over; had sat
at feasts, and kneeled by deathbeds, and followed her best-beloved to the
grave, often, often crying out to God above to liberate her, to make an
end of her anguish, for that her strength was exhausted and she could
bear no more. But she had borne it and lived through all; and now had
arrived at a time when all strong sensations are over, when the soul is
no longer either triumphant or miserable, and when life itself, and
comfort and ease, and the warmth of the sun, and of the fireside, and the
mild beauty of home were enough for her, and she required no more. That
is, she required very little more, a useful routine of hours and rules, a
play of reflected emotion, a pleasant exercise of faculty, making her
feel herself still capable of the best things in life--of interest in her
fellow-creatures, kindness to them, and a little gentle intellectual
occupation, with books and men around. She had not forgotten anything in
her life,--not the excitements and delights of her beauty, nor love, nor
grief, nor the higher levels she had touched in her day. She did not
forget the dark day when her first-born was laid in the grave, nor that
triumphant and brilliant climax of her life when every one pointed to her
as the mother of a hero. All these things were like pictures hung in the

secret chambers of her mind, to which she could go back in silent
moments, in the twilight seated by the fire, or in the balmy afternoon,
when languor and sweet thoughts are over the world. Sometimes at such
moments there would be heard from her a faint sob, called forth, it was
quite as likely, by the recollection of the triumph as by that of the
deathbed. With these pictures to go back upon at her will she was never
dull, but saw herself moving through the various scenes of her life with
a continual sympathy, feeling for herself in all her troubles,--sometimes
approving, sometimes judging that woman who had been so pretty, so happy,
so miserable, and had gone through everything that life can go through.
How much that is, looking back upon it!--passages so hard that the wonder
was how she could survive them; pangs so terrible that the heart would
seem at its last gasp, but yet would revive and go on.

Besides these, however, she had many mild pleasures. She had a pretty
house full of things which formed a graceful _entourage_ suitable, as
she felt, for such a woman as she was, and in which she took pleasure for
their own beauty,--soft chairs and couches, a fireplace and lights
which were the perfection of tempered warmth and illumination. She had a
carriage, very comfortable and easy, in which, when the weather was
suitable, she went out; and a pretty garden and lawns, in which, when she
preferred staying at home, she could have her little walk, or sit out
under the trees. She had books in plenty, and all the newspapers, and
everything that was needful to keep her within the reflection of the busy
life which she no longer cared to encounter in her own person. The post
rarely brought her painful letters; for all those impassioned interests
which bring pain had died out, and the sorrows of others, when they were
communicated to her, gave her a luxurious sense of sympathy, yet
exemption. She was sorry for them; but such catastrophes could touch her
no more: and often she had pleasant letters, which afforded her so
mething
to talk and think about, and discuss as if it concerned her,--and yet did
not concern her,--business which could not hurt her if it failed, which
would please her if it succeeded. Her letters, her papers, her books,
each coming at its appointed hour, were all instruments of pleasure. She
came down-stairs at a certain hour, which she kept to as if it had been
of the utmost importance, although it was of no importance at all: she
took just so much good wine, so many cups of tea. Her repasts were as
regular as clockwork--never too late, never too early. Her whole life
went on velvet, rolling smoothly along, without jar or interruption,
blameless, pleasant, kind. People talked of her old age as a model of old
age, with no bitterness or sourness in it. And, indeed, why should she
have been sour or bitter? It suited her far better to be kind. She was in
reality kind to everybody, liking to see pleasant faces about her. The
poor had no reason to complain of her; her servants were very
comfortable; and the one person in her house who was nearer to her own
level, who was her companion and most important minister, was very
comfortable too. This was a young woman about twenty, a very distant
relation, with "no claim," everybody said, upon her kind mistress and
friend,--the daughter of a distant cousin. How very few think anything
at all of such a tie! but Lady Mary had taken her young namesake when she
was a child, and she had grown up as it were at her godmother's
footstool, in the conviction that the measured existence of the old was
the rule of life, and that her own trifling personality counted for
nothing, or next to nothing, in its steady progress. Her name was Mary
too--always called "little Mary" as having once been little, and not yet
very much in the matter of size. She was one of the pleasantest things
to look at of all the pretty things in Lady Mary's rooms, and she had the
most sheltered, peaceful, and pleasant life that could be conceived. The
only little thorn in her pillow was, that whereas in the no
vels, of which
she read a great many, the heroines all go and pay visits and have
adventures, she had none, but lived constantly at home. There was
something much more serious in her life, had she known, which was that
she had nothing, and no power of doing anything for herself; that she had
all her life been accustomed to a modest luxury which would make poverty
very hard to her; and that Lady Mary was over eighty, and had made no
will. If she did not make any will, her property would all go to her
grandson, who was so rich already that her fortune would be but as a drop
in the ocean to him; or to some great-grandchildren of whom she knew very
little,--the descendants of a daughter long ago dead who had married an
Austrian, and who were therefore foreigners both in birth and name. That
she should provide for little Mary was therefore a thing which nature
demanded, and which would hurt nobody. She had said so often; but she
deferred the doing of it as a thing for which there was no hurry. For why
should she die? There seemed no reason or need for it. So long as she
lived, nothing could be more sure, more happy and serene, than little
Mary's life; and why should she die? She did not perhaps put this into
words; but the meaning of her smile, and the manner in which she put
aside every suggestion about the chances of the hereafter away from her,
said it more clearly than words. It was not that she had any
superstitious fear about the making of a will. When the doctor or the
vicar or her man of business, the only persons who ever talked to her on
the subject, ventured periodically to refer to it, she assented
pleasantly,--yes, certainly, she must do it--some time or other.

"It is a very simple thing to do," the lawyer said. "I will save you all
trouble; nothing but your signature will be wanted--and that you give
every day."

"Oh, I should think nothing of the trouble!" she said.

"And it would liberate your mind from all care, and leave you free to
think of things more important still," said the clergyman.

"I thin
k I am very free of care," she replied.

Then the doctor added bluntly, "And you will not die an hour the sooner
for having made your will."

"Die!" said Lady Mary, surprised. And then she added, with a smile, "I
hope you don't think so little of me as to believe I would be kept back
by that?"

These gentlemen all consulted together in despair, and asked each other
what should be done. They thought her an egotist--a cold-hearted old
woman, holding at arm's length any idea of the inevitable. And so she
did; but not because she was cold-hearted,--because she was so accustomed
to living, and had survived so many calamities, and gone on so long--so
long; and because everything was so comfortably arranged about her--all
her little habits so firmly established, as if nothing could interfere
with them. To think of the day arriving which should begin with some
other formula than that of her maid's entrance drawing aside the
curtains, lighting the cheerful fire, bringing her a report of the
weather; and then the little tray, resplendent with snowy linen and
shining silver and china, with its bouquet of violets or a rose in the
season, the newspaper carefully dried and cut, the letters,--every detail
was so perfect, so unchanging, regular as the morning. It seemed
impossible that it should come to an end. And then when she came
downstairs, there were all the little articles upon her table always
ready to her hand; a certain number of things to do, each at the
appointed hour; the slender refreshments it was necessary for her to
take, in which there was a little exquisite variety--but never any change
in the fact that at eleven and at three and so forth something had to be
taken. Had a woman wanted to abandon the peaceful life which was thus
supported and carried on, the very framework itself would have resisted.
It was impossible (almost) to contemplate the idea that at a given moment
the whole machinery must stop. She was neither without heart nor without
religion, but on the contrary a good woman, to whom many gentle thou
ghts
had been given at various portions of her career. But the occasion
seemed to have passed for that as well as other kinds of emotion. The
mere fact of living was enough for her. The little exertion which it was
well she was required to make produced a pleasant weariness. It was a
duty much enforced upon her by all around her, that she should do nothing
which would exhaust or fatigue. "I don't want you to think," even the
doctor would say; "you have done enough of thinking in your time." And
this she accepted with great composure of spirit. She had thought and
felt and done much in her day; but now everything of the kind was over.
There was no need for her to fatigue herself; and day followed day, all
warm and sheltered and pleasant. People died, it is true, now and then,
out of doors; but they were mostly young people, whose death might have
been prevented had proper care been taken,--who were seized with violent
maladies, or caught sudden infections, or were cut down by accident; all
which things seemed natural. Her own contemporaries were very few, and
they were like herself--living on in something of the same way. At
eighty-five all people under seventy are young; and one's contemporaries
are very, very few.

Nevertheless these men did disturb her a little about her will. She had
made more than one will in the former days during her active life; but
all those to whom she had bequeathed her possessions were dead. She had
survived them all, and inherited from many of them; which had been a hard
thing in its time. One day the lawyer had been more than ordinarily
pressing. He had told her stories of men who had died intestate, and left
trouble and penury behind them to those whom they would have most wished
to preserve from all trouble. It would not have become Mr. Furnival to
say brutally to Lady Mary, "This is how you will leave your godchild when
you die." But he told her story after story, many of them piteous enough.

"People think it is so troublesome a business," he said, "when it is
nothing at all--the
 most easy matter in the world. We are getting so
much less particular nowadays about formalities. So long as the
testator's intentions are made quite apparent--that is the chief matter,
and a very bad thing for us lawyers."

"I dare say," said Lady Mary, "it is unpleasant for a man to think of
himself as 'the testator.' It is a very abstract title, when you come to
think of it."

"Pooh'" said Mr. Furnival, who had no sense of humor.

"But if this great business is so very simple," she went on, "one could
do it, no doubt, for one's self?"

"Many people do, but it is never advisable," said the lawyer. "You will
say it is natural for me to tell you that. When they do, it should be as
simple as possible. I give all my real property, or my personal property,
or my share in so-and-so, or my jewels, or so forth, to--whoever it may
be. The fewer words the better,--so that nobody may be able to read
between the lines, you know,--and the signature attested by two
witnesses; but they must not be witnesses that have any interest; that
is, that have anything left to them by the document they witness."

Lady Mary put up her hand defensively, with a laugh. It was still a most
delicate hand, like ivory, a little yellowed with age, but fine, the
veins standing out a little upon it, the finger-tips still pink. "You
speak," she said, "as if you expected me to take the law in my own hands.
No, no, my old friend; never fear, you shall have the doing of it."

"Whenever you please, my dear lady--whenever you please. Such a thing
cannot be done an hour too soon. Shall I take your instructions now?"

Lady Mary laughed, and said, "You were always a very keen man for
business. I remember your father used to say, Robert would never neglect
an opening."

"No," he said, with a peculiar look. "I have always looked after my
six-and-eightpences; and in that case it is true, the pounds take care of
themselves."

"Very good care," said Lady Mary; and then she bade her young companion
bring that book she had been reading, where there was something
 she
wanted to show Mr. Furnival. "It is only a case in a novel, but I am sure
it is bad law; give me your opinion," she said.

He was obliged to be civil, very civil. Nobody is rude to the Lady Marys
of life; and besides, she was old enough to have an additional right to
every courtesy. But while he sat over the novel, and tried with
unnecessary vehemence to make her see what very bad law it was, and
glanced from her smiling attention to the innocent sweetness of the girl
beside her, who was her loving attendant, the good man's heart was sore.
He said many hard things of her in his own mind as he went away.

"She will die," he said bitterly. "She will go off in a moment when
nobody is looking for it, and that poor child will be left destitute."

It was all he could do not to go back and take her by her fragile old
shoulders and force her to sign and seal at once. But then he knew very
well that as soon as he found himself in her presence, he would of
necessity be obliged to subdue his impatience, and be once more civil,
very civil, and try to suggest and insinuate the duty which he dared not
force upon her. And it was very clear that till she pleased she would
take no hint. He supposed it must be that strange reluctance to part with
their power which is said to be common to old people, or else that horror
of death, and determination to keep it at arm's length, which is also
common. Thus he did as spectators are so apt to do, he forced a meaning
and motive into what had no motive at all, and imagined Lady Mary, the
kindest of women, to be of purpose and intention risking the future of
the girl whom she had brought up, and whom she loved,--not with passion,
indeed, or anxiety, but with tender benevolence; a theory which was as
false as anything could be.

That evening in her room, Lady Mary, in a very cheerful mood, sat
by a little bright unnecessary fire, with her writing-book before her,
waiting till she should be sleepy. It was the only point in which she
was a little hard upon her maid, who in every other resp
ect was the
best-treated of servants. Lady Mary, as it happened, had often no
inclination for bed till the night was far advanced. She slept little, as
is common enough at her age. She was in her warm wadded dressing-gown, an
article in which she still showed certain traces (which were indeed
visible in all she wore) of her ancient beauty, with her white hair
becomingly arranged under a cap of cambric and lace. At the last moment,
when she had been ready to step into bed, she had changed her mind, and
told Jervis that she would write a letter or two first. And she had
written her letters, but still felt no inclination to sleep. Then there
fluttered across her memory somehow the conversation she had held with
Mr. Furnival in the morning. It would be amusing, she thought, to cheat
him out of some of those six-and-eightpences he pretended to think so
much of. It would be still more amusing, next time the subject of her
will was recurred to, to give his arm a little tap with her fan, and say,
"Oh, that is all settled, months ago." She laughed to herself at this,
and took out a fresh sheet of paper. It was a little jest that pleased
her.

"Do you think there is any one up yet, Jervis, except you and me?" she
said to the maid. Jervis hesitated a little, and then said that she
believed Mr. Brown had not gone to bed yet; for he had been going over
the cellar, and was making up his accounts. Jervis was so explanatory
that her mistress divined what was meant. "I suppose I have been spoiling
sport, keeping you here," she said good-humoredly; for it was well known
that Miss Jervis and Mr. Brown were engaged, and that they were only
waiting (everybody knew but Lady Mary, who never suspected it) the death
of their mistress, to set up a lodging-house in Jermyn Street, where they
fully intended to make their fortune. "Then go," Lady Mary said, "and
call Brown. I have a little business paper to write, and you must both
witness my signature." She laughed to herself a little as she said this,
thinking how she would steel a march on
 Mr. Furnival. "I give, and
bequeath," she said to herself playfully, after Jervis had hurried away.
She fully intended to leave both of these good servants something, but
then she recollected that people who are interested in a will cannot sign
as witnesses. "What does it matter?" she said to herself gayly; "If it
ever should be wanted, Mary would see to that." Accordingly she dashed
off, in her pretty, old-fashioned handwriting, which was very angular and
pointed, as was the fashion in her day, and still very clear, though
slightly tremulous, a few lines, in which, remembering playfully Mr.
Furnival's recommendation of "few words," she left to little Mary all she
possessed, adding, by the prompting of that recollection about the
witnesses, "She will take care of the servants." It filled one side only
of the large sheet of notepaper, which was what Lady Mary habitually
used. Brown, introduced timidly by Jervis, and a little overawed by the
solemnity of the bedchamber, came in and painted solidly his large
signature after the spidery lines of his mistress. She had folded down
the paper, so that neither saw what it was.

"Now I will go to bed," Lady Mary said, when Brown had left the room.
"And Jervis, you must go to bed too."

"Yes, my lady," said Jervis.

"I don't approve of courtship at this hour."

"No, my lady," Jervis replied, deprecating and disappointed.

"Why cannot he tell his tale in daylight?"

"Oh, my lady, there's no tale to tell," cried the maid. "We are not of
the gossiping sort, my lady, neither me nor Mr. Brown." Lady Mary
laughed, and watched while the candles were put out, the fire made a
pleasant flicker in the room,--it was autumn and still warm, and it was
"for company" and cheerfulness that the little fire was lit; she liked to
see it dancing and flickering upon the walls,--and then closed her eyes
amid an exquisite softness of comfort and luxury, life itself bearing her
up as softly, filling up all the crevices as warmly, as the downy pillow
upon which she rested her still beautiful old he
ad.

If she had died that night! The little sheet of paper that meant so much
lay openly, innocently, in her writing-book, along with the letters she
had written, and looking of as little importance as they. There was
nobody in the world who grudged old Lady Mary one of those pretty placid
days of hers. Brown and Jervis, if they were sometimes a little
impatient, consoled each other that they were both sure of something in
her will, and that in the mean time it was a very good place. And all the
rest would have been very well content that Lady Mary should live
forever. But how wonderfully it would have simplified everything, and how
much trouble and pain it would have saved to everybody, herself included,
could she have died that night!

But naturally, there was no question of dying on that night. When she was
about to go downstairs, next day, Lady Mary, giving her letters to be
posted, saw the paper she had forgotten lying beside them. She had
forgotten all about it, but the sight of it made her smile. She folded
it up and put it in an envelope while Jervis went down-stairs with the
letters; and then, to carry out her joke, she looked round her to see
where she would put it. There was an old Italian cabinet in the room,
with a secret drawer, which it was a little difficult to open,--almost
impossible for any one who did not know the secret. Lady Mary looked
round her, smiled, hesitated a little, and then walked across the room
and put the envelope in the secret drawer. She was still fumbling with it
when Jervis came back; but there was no connection in Jervis's mind, then
or ever after, between the paper she had signed and this old cabinet,
which was one of the old lady's toys. She arranged Lady Mary's shawl,
which had dropped off her shoulders a little in her unusual activity,
and took up her book and her favorite cushion, and all the little
paraphernalia that moved with her, and gave her lady her arm to go
down-stairs; where little Mary had placed her chair just at the right
angle, and arranged the little tabl
e, on which there were so many little
necessaries and conveniences, and was standing smiling, the prettiest
object of all, the climax of the gentle luxury and pleasantness, to
receive her godmother, who had been her providence all her life.

But what a pity! oh, what a pity, that she had not died that night!

II.

Life went on after this without any change. There was never any change in
that delightful house; and if it was years, or months, or even days, the
youngest of its inhabitants could scarcely tell, and Lady Mary could not
tell at all. This was one of her little imperfections,--a little mist
which hung, like the lace about her head, over her memory. She could not
remember how time went, or that there was any difference between one day
and another. There were Sundays, it was true, which made a kind of gentle
measure of the progress of time; but she said, with a smile, that she
thought it was always Sunday--they came so close upon each other. And
time flew on gentle wings, that made no sound and left no reminders. She
had her little ailments like anybody, but in reality less than anybody,
seeing there was nothing to fret her, nothing to disturb the even tenor
of her days. Still there were times when she took a little cold, or got a
chill, in spite of all precautions, as she went from one room to another.
She came to be one of the marvels of the time,--an old lady who had seen
everybody worth seeing for generations back; who remembered as distinctly
as if they had happened yesterday, great events that had taken place
before the present age began at all, before the great statesmen of our
time were born; and in full possession of all her faculties, as everybody
said, her mind as clear as ever, her intelligence as active, reading
everything, interested in everything, and still beautiful, in extreme old
age. Everybody about her, and in particular all the people who helped to
keep the thorns from her path, and felt themselves to have a hand in her
preservation, were proud of Lady Mary and she was perhaps a little,
 a
very little, delightfully, charmingly, proud of herself. The doctor,
beguiled by professional vanity, feeling what a feather she was in his
cap, quite confident that she would reach her hundredth birthday, and
with an ecstatic hope that even, by grace of his admirable treatment and
her own beautiful constitution, she might (almost) solve the problem and
live forever, gave up troubling about the will which at a former period
he had taken so much interest in. "What is the use?" he said; "she will
see us all out." And the vicar, though he did not give in to this, was
overawed by the old lady, who knew everything that could be taught her,
and to whom it seemed an impertinence to utter commonplaces about duty,
or even to suggest subjects of thought. Mr. Furnival was the only man who
did not cease his representations, and whose anxiety about the young
Mary, who was so blooming and sweet in the shadow of the old, did not
decrease. But the recollection of the bit of paper in the secret drawer
of the cabinet, fortified his old client against all his attacks. She had
intended it only as a jest, with which some day or other to confound him,
and show how much wiser she was than he supposed. It became quite a
pleasant subject of thought to her, at which she laughed to herself. Some
day, when she had a suitable moment, she would order him to come with all
his formalities, and then produce her bit of paper, and turn the laugh
against him. But oddly, the very existence of that little document kept
her indifferent even to the laugh. It was too much trouble; she only
smiled at him, and took no more notice, amused to think how astonished
he would be,--when, if ever, he found it out.

It happened, however, that one day in the early winter the wind changed
when Lady Mary was out for her drive; at least they all vowed the wind
changed. It was in the south, that genial quarter, when she set out, but
turned about in some uncomfortable way, and was a keen northeaster when
she came back. And in the moment of stepping from the carriage,
 she
caught a chill. It was the coachman's fault, Jervis said, who allowed the
horses to make a step forward when Lady Mary was getting out, and kept
her exposed, standing on the step of the carriage, while he pulled them
up; and it was Jervis's fault, the footman said, who was not clever
enough to get her lady out, or even to throw a shawl round her when she
perceived how the weather had changed. It is always some one's fault, or
some unforeseen, unprecedented change, that does it at the last. Lady
Mary was not accustomed to be ill, and did not bear it with her usual
grace. She was a little impatient at first, and thought they were making
an unnecessary fuss. But then there passed a few uncomfortable feverish
days, when she began to look forward to the doctor's visit as the only
thing there was any comfort in. Afterwards she passed a night of a very
agitating kind. She dozed and dreamed, and awoke and dreamed again. Her
life seemed all to run into dreams,--a strange confusion was about her,
through which she could define nothing. Once waking up, as she supposed,
she saw a group round her bed, the doctor,--with a candle in his hand,
(how should the doctor be there in the middle of the night?) holding her
hand or feeling her pulse; little Mary at one side, crying,--why should
the child cry?--and Jervis, very, anxious, pouring something into a
glass. There were other faces there which she was sure must have come out
of a dream,--so unlikely was it that they should be collected in her
bedchamber,--and all with a sort of halo of feverish light about them; a
magnified and mysterious importance. This strange scene, which she did
not understand, seemed to make itself visible all in a moment out of the
darkness, and then disappeared again as suddenly as it came.

III.

When she woke again, it was morning; and her first waking consciousness
was, that she must be much better. The choking sensation in her throat
was altogether gone. She had no desire to cough--no difficulty in
breathing. She had a fancy, however, that she m
ust be still dreaming,
for she felt sure that some one had called her by her name, "Mary."
Now all who could call her by her Christian name were dead years ago;
therefore it must be a dream. However, in a short time it was
repeated,--"Mary, Mary! get up; there is a great deal to do." This voice
confused her greatly. Was it possible that all that was past had been
mere fancy, that she had but dreamed those long, long years,--maturity
and motherhood, and trouble and triumph, and old age at the end of all?
It seemed to her possible that she might have dreamed the rest,--for she
had been a girl much given to visions,--but she said to herself that she
never could have dreamed old age. And then with a smile she mused, and
thought that it must be the voice that was a dream; for how could she
get up without Jervis, who had never appeared yet to draw the curtains or
make the fire? Jervis perhaps had sat up late. She remembered now to have
seen her that time in the middle of the night by her bedside; so that it
was natural enough, poor thing, that she should be late. Get up! who was
it that was calling to her so? She had not been so called to, she who had
always been a great lady, since she was a girl by her mother's side.
"Mary, Mary!" It was a very curious dream. And what was more curious
still was, that by-and-by she could not keep still any longer, but got up
without thinking any more of Jervis, and going out of her room came all
at once into the midst of a company of people, all very busy; whom she
was much surprised to find, at first, but whom she soon accustomed
herself to, finding the greatest interest in their proceedings, and
curious to know what they were doing. They, for their part, did not seem
at all surprised by her appearance, nor did any one stop to explain, as
would have been natural; but she took this with great composure, somewhat
astonished, perhaps, being used, wherever she went, to a great many
observances and much respect, but soon, very soon, becoming used to it.
Then some one repeated what she had
 heard before. "It is time you got
up,--for there is a great deal to do."

"To do," she said, "for me?" and then she looked round upon them with
that charming smile which had subjugated so many. "I am afraid," she
said, "you will find me of very little use. I am too old now, if ever I
could have done much, for work."

"Oh no, you are not old,--you will do very well," some one said.

"Not old!"--Lady Mary felt a little offended in spite of herself.
"Perhaps I like flattery as well as my neighbors," she said with dignity,
"but then it must be reasonable. To say I am anything but a very old
woman--"

Here she paused a little, perceiving for the first time, with surprise,
that she was standing and walking without her stick or the help of any
one's arm, quite freely and at her ease, and that the place in which she
was had expanded into a great place like a gallery in a palace, instead
of the room next her own into which she had walked a few minutes ago; but
this discovery did not at all affect her mind, or occupy her except with
the most passing momentary surprise.

"The fact is, I feel a great deal better and stronger," she said.

"Quite well, Mary, and stronger than ever you were before?"

"Who is it that calls me Mary? I have had nobody for a long time to call
me Mary; the friends of my youth are all dead. I think that you must be
right, although the doctor, I feel sure, thought me very bad last night.
I should have got alarmed if I had not fallen asleep again."

"And then woke up well?"

"Quite well: it is wonderful, but quite true. You seem to know a great
deal about me."

"I know everything about you. You have had a very pleasant life, and do
you think you have made the best of it? Your old age has been very
pleasant."

"Ah! you acknowledge that I am old, then?" cried Lady Mary with a smile.

"You are old no longer, and you are a great lady no longer. Don't you see
that something has happened to you? It is seldom that such a great change
happens without being found out."

"Yes; it is true I have got better all a
t once. I feel an extraordinary
renewal of strength. I seem to have left home without knowing it; none of
my people seem near me. I feel very much as if I had just awakened from a
long dream. Is it possible," she said, with a wondering look, "that I
have dreamed all my life, and after all am just a girl at home?" The idea
was ludicrous, and she laughed. "You see I am very much improved indeed,"
she said.

She was still so far from perceiving the real situation, that some one
came towards her out of the group of people about--some one whom she
recognized--with the evident intention of explaining to her how it was.
She started a little at the sight of him, and held out her hand, and
cried: "You here! I am very glad to see you--doubly glad, since I was
told a few days ago that you had--died."

There was something in this word as she herself pronounced it that
troubled her a little. She had never been one of those who are afraid of
death. On the contrary, she had always taken a great interest in it, and
liked to hear everything that could be told her on the subject. It gave
her now, however, a curious little thrill of sensation, which she did not
understand: she hoped it was not superstition.

"You have guessed rightly," he said, "quite right. That is one of the
words with a false meaning, which is to us a mere symbol of something we
cannot understand. But you see what it means now."

It was a great shock, it need not be concealed. Otherwise, she had been
quite pleasantly occupied with the interest of something new, into which
she had walked so easily out of her own bedchamber, without any trouble,
and with the delightful new sensation of health and strength. But when it
flashed upon her that she was not to go back to her bedroom again, nor
have any of those cares and attentions which had seemed necessary to
existence, she was very much startled and shaken. Died? Was it possible
that she personally had died? She had known it was a thing that happened
to everybody; but yet--And it was a solemn matter, to be prepared f
or,
and looked forward to, whereas--"If you mean that I too--" she said,
faltering a little; and then she added, "it is very surprising," with a
trouble in her mind which yet was not all trouble. "If that is so, it is
a thing well over. And it is very wonderful how much disturbance people
give themselves about it--if this is all."

"This is not all, however," her friend said; "you have an ordeal before
you which you will not find pleasant. You are going to think about your
life, and all that was imperfect in it, and which might have been done
better."

"We are none of us perfect," said Lady Mary, with a little of that
natural resentment with which one hears one's self accused,--however
ready one may be to accuse one's self.

"Permit me," said he, and took her hand and led her away without further
explanation. The people about were so busy with their own occupations
that they took very little notice; neither did she pay much attention to
the manner in which they were engaged. Their looks were friendly when
they met her eye, and she too felt friendly, with a sense of brotherhood.
But she had always been a kind woman. She wanted to step aside and help,
on more than one occasion, when it seemed to her that some people in her
way had a task above their powers; but this her conductor would not
permit. And she endeavored to put some questions to him as they went
along, with still less success.

"The change is very confusing," she said; "one has no standard to judge
by. I should like to know something about--the kind of people--and
the--manner of life."

"For a time," he said, "you will have enough to do, without troubling
yourself about that."

This naturally produced an uneasy sensation in her mind. "I suppose," she
said, rather timidly, "that we are not in--what we have been accustomed
to call heaven?"

"That is a word," he said, "which expresses rather a condition than a
place."

"But there must be a place--in which that condition can exist." She had
always been fond of discussions of this kind, and felt encouraged t
o find
that they were still practicable. "It cannot be the--Inferno; that is
clear, at least," she added, with the sprightliness which was one of her
characteristics; "perhaps--Purgatory? since you infer I have something to
endure."

"Words are interchangeable," he said: "that means one thing to one of us
which to another has a totally different signification." There was
something so like his old self in this, that she laughed with an
irresistible sense of amusement.

"You were always fond of the oracular," she said. She was conscious that
on former occasions, if he made such a speech to her, though she would
have felt the same amusement, she would not have expressed it so frankly.
But he did not take it at all amiss. And her thoughts went on in other
directions. She felt herself saying over to herself the words of the old
north-country dirge, which came to her recollection she knew not how--

If hosen and shoon thou gavest nane,
The whins shall prick thee intil the bane.

When she saw that her companion heard her, she asked, "Is that true?"

He shook his head a little. "It is too matter of fact," he said, "as I
need hardly tell you. Hosen and shoon are good, but they do not always
sufficiently indicate the state of the heart."

Lady Mary had a consciousness, which was pleasant to her, that so far as
the hosen and shoon went, she had abundant means of preparing herself for
the pricks of any road, however rough; but she had no time to indulge
this pleasing reflection, for she was shortly introduced into a great
building, full of innumerable rooms, in one of which her companion left
her.

IV.

The door opened, and she felt herself free to come out. How long she had
been there, or what passed there, is not for any one to say. She came out
tingling and smarting--if such words can be used--with an intolerable
recollection of the last act of her life. So intolerable was it that all
that had gone before, and all the risings up of old errors and visions
long dead, were forgotten in the sharp and keen prick of this, which
 was
not over and done like the rest. No one had accused her, or brought
before her judge the things that were against her. She it was who had
done it all,--she, whose memory did not spare her one fault, who
remembered everything. But when she came to that last frivolity of her
old age, and saw for the first time how she had played with the future
of the child whom she had brought up, and abandoned to the hardest
fate,--for nothing, for folly, for a jest,--the horror and bitterness of
the thought filled her mind to overflowing. In the first anguish of that
recollection she had to go forth, receiving no word of comfort in respect
to it, meeting only with a look of sadness and compassion, which went to
her very heart. She came forth as if she had been driven away, but not by
any outward influence, by the force of her own miserable sensations. "I
will write," she said to herself, "and tell them; I will go--" And then
she stopped short, remembering that she could neither go nor write,--that
all communication with the world she had left was closed. Was it all
closed? Was there no way in which a message could reach those who
remained behind? She caught the first passer-by whom she passed, and
addressed him piteously. "Oh, tell me,--you have been longer here than
I,--cannot one send a letter, a message, if it were only a single word?"

"Where?" he said, stopping and listening; so that it began to seem
possible to her that some such expedient might still be within her reach.

"It is to England," she said, thinking he meant to ask as to which
quarter of the world.

"Ah," he said, shaking his head, "I fear that it is impossible."

"But it is to set something right, which out of mere inadvertence, with
no ill meaning,"--No, no (she repeated to herself), no ill-meaning--none!
"Oh sir, for charity! tell me how I can find a way. There must--there
must be some way."

He was greatly moved by the sight of her distress. "I am but a stranger
here," he said; "I may be wrong. There are others who can tell you
better; but"--and he sho
ok his head sadly--"most of us would be so
thankful, if we could, to send a word, if it were only a single word, to
those we have left behind, that I fear, I fear--"

"Ah!" cried Lady Mary, "but that would be only for the tenderness;
whereas this is for justice and for pity, and to do away with a great
wrong which I did before I came here."

"I am very sorry for you," he said; but shook his head once more as he
went away. She was more careful next time, and chose one who had the look
of much experience and knowledge of the place. He listened to her very
gravely, and answered yes, that he was one of the officers, and could
tell her whatever she wanted to know; but when she told him what she
wanted, he too shook his head. "I do not say it cannot be done," he said.
"There are some cases in which it has been successful, but very few. It
has often been attempted. There is no law against it. Those who do it do
it at their own risk. They suffer much, and almost always they fail."

"No, oh no! You said there were some who succeeded. No one can be more
anxious than I. I will give--anything--everything I have in the world!"

He gave her a smile, which was very grave nevertheless, and full of pity.
"You forget," he said, "that you have nothing to give; and if you had,
that there is no one here to whom it would be of any value."

Though she was no longer old and weak, yet she was still a woman, and she
began to weep, in the terrible failure and contrariety of all things; but
yet she would not yield. She cried: "There must be some one here who
would do it for love. I have had people who loved me in my time. I must
have some here who have not forgotten me. Ah! I know what you would say.
I lived so long I forgot them all, and why should they remember me?"

Here she was touched on the arm, and looking round, saw close to her the
face of one whom, it was very true, she had forgotten. She remembered him
but dimly after she had looked long at him. A little group had gathered
about her, with grieved looks, to see her distress. He wh
o had touched
her was the spokesman of them all.

"There is nothing I would not do," he said, "for you and for love."
And then they all sighed, surrounding her, and added, "But it is
impossible--impossible!"

She stood and gazed at them, recognizing by degrees faces that she knew,
and seeing in all that look of grief and sympathy which makes all human
souls brothers. Impossible was not a word that had been often said to be
in her life; and to come out of a world in which everything could be
changed, everything communicated in the twinkling of an eye, and find a
dead blank before her and around her, through which not a word could go,
was more terrible than can be said in words. She looked piteously upon
them, with that anguish of helplessness which goes to every heart, and
cried, "What is impossible? To send a word--only a word--to set right
what is wrong? Oh, I understand," she said, lifting up her hands. "I
understand that to send messages of comfort must not be; that the people
who love you must bear it, as we all have done in our time, and trust
to God for consolation. But I have done a wrong! Oh, listen, listen to
me, my friends. I have left a child, a young creature, unprovided
for--without any one to help her. And must that be? Must she bear it, and
I bear it, forever, and no means, no way of setting it right? Listen to
me! I was there last night,--in the middle of the night I was still
there,--and here this morning. So it must be easy to come--only a short
way; and two words would be enough,--only two words!"

They gathered closer and closer round her, full of compassion. "It is
easy to come," they said, "but not to go."

And one added, "It will not be forever; comfort yourself. When she comes
here, or to a better place, that will seem to you only as a day.

"But to her," cried Lady Mary,--"to her it will be long years--it will be
trouble and sorrow; and she will think I took no thought for her; and she
will be right," the penitent said with a great and bitter cry.

It was so terrible that they were all si
lent, and said not a
word,--except the man who had loved her, who put his hand upon her arm,
and said, "We are here for that; this is the fire that purges us,--to see
at last what we have done, and the true aspect of it, and to know the
cruel wrong, yet never be able to make amends."

She remembered then that this was a man who had neglected all lawful
affections, and broken the hearts of those who trusted him for her sake;
and for a moment she forgot her own burden in sorrow for his.

It was now that he who had called himself one of the officers came
forward again; for the little crowd had gathered round her so closely
that he had been shut out. He said, "No one can carry your message for
you; that is not permitted. But there is still a possibility. You
may have permission to go yourself. Such things have been done, though
they have not often been successful. But if you will--"

She shivered when she heard him; and it became apparent to her why no one
could be found to go,--for all her nature revolted from that step, which
it was evident must be the most terrible which could be thought of. She
looked at him with troubled, beseeching eyes, and the rest all looked at
her, pitying and trying to soothe her.

"Permission will not be refused," he said, "for a worthy cause."

Upon which the others all spoke together, entreating her. "Already," they
cried, "they have forgotten you living. You are to them one who is dead.
They will be afraid of you if they can see you. Oh, go not back! Be
content to wait,--to wait; it is only a little while. The life of man is
nothing; it appears for a little time, and then it vanishes away. And
when she comes here she will know,--or in a better place." They sighed as
they named the better place; though some smiled too, feeling perhaps
more near to it.

Lady Mary listened to them all, but she kept her eyes upon the face of
him who offered her this possibility. There passed through her mind a
hundred stories she had heard of those who had _gone back_. But not one
that spoke of them as wel
come, as received with joy, as comforting those
they loved. Ah no! was it not rather a curse upon the house to which they
came? The rooms were shut up, the houses abandoned, where they were
supposed to appear. Those whom they had loved best feared and fled them.
They were a vulgar wonder,--a thing that the poorest laughed at, yet
feared. Poor, banished souls! it was because no one would listen to them
that they had to linger and wait, and come and go. She shivered, and in
spite of her longing and her repentance, a cold dread and horror took
possession of her. She looked round upon her companions for comfort, and
found none.

"Do not go," they said; "do not go. We have endured like you. We wait
till all things are made clear."

And another said, "All will be made clear. It is but for a time."

She turned from one to another, and back again to the first speaker,--he
who had authority.

He said, "It is very rarely successful; it <DW44>s the course of your
penitence. It is an indulgence, and it may bring harm and not good but if
the meaning is generous and just, permission will be given, and you may
go."

Then all the strength of her nature rose in her. She thought of the child
forsaken, and of the dark world round her, where she would find so few
friends; and of the home shut up in which she had lived her young and
pleasant life; and of the thoughts that must rise in her heart, as though
she were forsaken and abandoned of God and man. Then Lady Mary turned to
the man who had authority. She said, "If he whom I saw to-day will give
me his blessing, I will go--" and they all pressed round her, weeping and
kissing her hands.

"He will not refuse his blessing," they said; "but the way is terrible,
and you are still weak. How can you encounter all the misery of it? He
commands no one to try that dark and dreadful way."

"I will try," Lady Mary said.

V.

The night which Lady Mary had been conscious of, in a momentary glimpse
full of the exaggeration of fever, had not indeed been so expeditious
as she believed. The doctor,
 it is true, had been pronouncing her
death-warrant when she saw him holding her wrist, and wondered what he
did there in the middle of the night; but she had been very ill before
this, and the conclusion of her life had been watched with many tears.
Then there had risen up a wonderful commotion in the house, of which
little Mary, her godchild, was very little sensible. Had she left any
will, any instructions, the slightest indication of what she wished to be
done after her death? Mr. Furnival, who had been very anxious to be
allowed to see her, even in the last days of her illness, said
emphatically, no. She had never executed any will, never made any
disposition of her affairs, he said, almost with bitterness, in the
tone of one who is ready to weep with vexation and distress. The vicar
took a more hopeful view. He said it was impossible that so considerate
a person could have done this, and that there must, he was sure, be
found somewhere, if close examination was made, a memorandum, a
letter,--something which should show what she wished; for she must have
known very well, notwithstanding all flatteries and compliments upon her
good looks, that from day to day her existence was never to be calculated
upon. The doctor did not share this last opinion. He said that there was
no fathoming the extraordinary views that people took of their own case;
and that it was quite possible, though it seemed incredible, that Lady
Mary might really be as little expectant of death, on the way to
ninety, as a girl of seventeen; but still he was of opinion that she
might have left a memorandum somewhere.

These three gentlemen were in the foreground of affairs; because she had
no relations to step in and take the management. The earl, her grandson,
was abroad, and there were only his solicitors to interfere on his
behalf, men to whom Lady Mary's fortune was quite unimportant, although
it was against their principles to let anything slip out of their hands
that could aggrandize their client; but who knew nothing about the
circumsta
nces,--about little Mary, about the old lady's peculiarities, in
any way. Therefore the persons who had surrounded her in her life, and
Mr. Furnival, her man of business, were the persons who really had the
management of everything. Their wives interfered a little too, or rather
the one wife who only could do so,--the wife of the vicar, who came in
beneficently at once, and took poor little Mary, in her first desolation,
out of the melancholy house. Mrs. Vicar did this without any hesitation,
knowing very well that, in all probability, Lady Mary had made no will,
and consequently that the poor girl was destitute. A great deal is said
about the hardness of the world, and the small consideration that is
shown for a destitute dependent in such circumstances. But this is not
true; and, as a matter of fact, there is never, or very rarely, such
profound need in the world, without a great deal of kindness and much
pity. The three gentlemen all along had been entirely in Mary's interest.
They had not expected legacies from the old lady, or any advantage to
themselves. It was of the girl that they had thought. And when now they
examined everything and inquired into all her ways and what she had done,
it was of Mary they were thinking. But Mr. Furnival was very certain of
his point. He knew that Lady Mary had made no will; time after time he
had pressed it upon her. He was very sure, even while he examined her
writing-table, and turned out all the drawers, that nothing would be
found. The little Italian cabinet had _chiffons_ in its drawers,
fragments of old lace, pieces of ribbon, little nothings of all sorts.
Nobody thought of the secret drawer; and if they had thought of it, where
could a place have been found less likely? If she had ever made a will,
she could have had no reason for concealing it. To be sure, they did
not reason in this way, being simply unaware of any place of concealment
at all. And Mary knew nothing about this search they were making. She did
not know how she was herself "left." When the first miser
y of grief was
exhausted, she began, indeed, to have troubled thoughts in her own
mind,--to expect that the vicar would speak to her, or Mr. Furnival send
for her, and tell her what she was to do. But nothing was said to her.
The vicar's wife had asked her to come for a long visit; and the anxious
people, who were forever talking over this subject and consulting what
was best for her, had come to no decision as yet, as to what must be said
to the person chiefly concerned. It was too heart-rending to have to put
the real state of affairs before her.

The doctor had no wife; but he had an anxious mother, who, though she
would not for the world have been unkind to the poor girl, yet was very
anxious that she should be disposed of and out of her son's way. It is
true that the doctor was forty and Mary only eighteen,--but what then?
Matches of that kind were seen every day; and his heart was so soft to
the child that his mother never knew from one day to another what might
happen. She had naturally no doubt at all that Mary would seize the first
hand held out to her; and as time went on, held many an anxious
consultation with the vicar's wife on the subject. "You cannot have her
with you forever," she said. "She must know one time or another how she
is left, and that she must learn to do something for herself."

"Oh," said the vicar's wife, "how is she to be told? It is heart-rending
to look at her and to think,--nothing but luxury all her life, and now,
in a moment, destitution. I am very glad to have her with me: she is a
dear little thing, and so nice with the children. And if some good
man would only step in--"

The doctor's mother trembled; for that a good man should step in was
exactly what she feared. "That is a thing that can never be depended
upon," she said; "and marriages made out of compassion are just as bad as
mercenary marriages. Oh no, my dear Mrs. Bowyer, Mary has a great deal of
character. You should put more confidence in her than that. No doubt she
will be much cast down at first, but when she know
s, she will rise to the
occasion and show what is in her."

"Poor little thing! what is in a girl of eighteen, and one that has lain
on the roses and fed on the lilies all her life? Oh, I could find it in
my heart to say a great deal about old Lady Mary that would not be
pleasant! Why did she bring her up so if she did not mean to provide for
her? I think she must have been at heart a wicked old woman."

"Oh no! we must not say that. I dare say, as my son says, she always
meant to do it sometime-"

"Sometime! how long did she expect to live, I wonder?"

"Well," said the doctor's mother, "it is wonderful how little old one
feels sometimes within one's self, even when one is well up in years."
She was of the faction of the old, instead of being like Mrs. Bowyer, who
was not much over thirty, of the faction of the young. She could make
excuses for Lady Mary; but she thought that it was unkind to bring the
poor little girl here in ignorance of her real position, and in the way
of men who, though old enough to know better, were still capable of
folly,--as what man is not, when a girl of eighteen is concerned? "I
hope," she added, "that the earl will do something for her. Certainly he
ought to, when he knows all that his grandmother did, and what her
intentions must have been. He ought to make her a little allowance; that
is the least he can do,--not, to be sure, such a provision as we all
hoped Lady Mary was going to make for her, but enough to live upon. Mr.
Furnival, I believe, has written to him to that effect."

"Hush!" cried the vicar's wife; indeed she had been making signs to the
other lady, who stood with her back to the door, for some moments. Mary
had come in while this conversation was going on. She had not paid any
attention to it; and yet her ear had been caught by the names of Lady
Mary, and the earl, and Mr. Furnival. For whom was it that the earl
should make an allowance enough to live upon? whom Lady Mary had not
provided for, and whom Mr. Furnival had written about? When she sat down
to the needle-wo
rk in which she was helping Mrs. Vicar, it was not to be
supposed that she should not ponder these words,--for some time very
vaguely, not perceiving the meaning of them; and then with a start she
woke up to perceive that there must be something meant, some one,--even
some one she knew. And then the needle dropped out of the girl's hand,
and the pinafore she was making fell on the floor. Some one! it must be
herself they meant! Who but she could be the subject of that earnest
conversation? She began to remember a great many conversations as
earnest, which had been stopped when she came into the room, and the
looks of pity which had been bent upon her. She had thought in her
innocence that this was because she had lost her godmother, her
protectress,--and had been very grateful for the kindness of her friends.
But now another meaning came into everything. Mrs. Bowyer had accompanied
her visitor to the door, still talking, and when she returned her face
was very grave. But she smiled when she met Mary's look, and said
cheerfully,--

"How kind of you, my dear, to make all those pinafores for me! The little
ones will not know themselves. They never were so fine before."

"Oh, Mrs. Bowyer," cried the girl, "I have guessed something! and I want
you to tell me! Are you keeping me for charity, and is it I that am
left--without any provision, and that Mr. Furnival has written--"

She could not finish her sentence, for it was very bitter to her, as may
be supposed.

"I don't know what you mean, my dear," cried the vicar's wife.
"Charity,--well, I suppose that is the same as love,--at least it is so in
the 13th chapter of 1st Corinthians. You are staying with us, I hope, for
love, if that is what you mean."

Upon which she took the girl in her arms and kissed her, and cried, as
women must. "My dearest," she said, "as you have guessed the worst, it is
better to tell you. Lady Mary--I don't know why; oh, I don't wish to
blame her--has left no will; and, my dear, my dear, you who have been
brought up in luxury, you have not a 
penny." Here the vicar's wife gave
Mary a closer hug, and kissed her once more. "We love you all the
better,--if that was possible," she said.

How many thoughts will fly through a girl's mind while her head rests on
some kind shoulder, and she is being consoled for the first calamity that
has touched her life! She was neither ungrateful nor unresponsive; but
as Mrs. Bowyer pressed her close to her kind breast and cried over her,
Mary did not cry, but thought,--seeing in a moment a succession of
scenes, and realizing in a moment so complete a new world, that all her
pain was quelled by the hurry and rush in her brain as her forces rallied
to sustain her. She withdrew from her kind support after a moment, with
eyes tearless and shining, the color mounting to her face, and not a sign
of discouragement in her, nor yet of sentiment, though she grasped her
kind friend's hands with a pressure which her innocent small fingers
seemed incapable of giving. "One has read of such things--in books," she
said, with a faint courageous smile; "and I suppose they happen,--in
life."

"Oh, my dear, too often in life. Though how people can be so cruel, so
indifferent, so careless of the happiness of those they love--"

Here Mary pressed her friend's hands till they hurt, and cried, "Not
cruel, not indifferent. I cannot hear a word--"

"Well, dear, it is like you to feel so,--I knew you would; and I will not
say a word. Oh, Mary, if she ever thinks of such things now--"

"I hope she will not--I hope she cannot!" cried the girl, with once more
a vehement pressure of her friend's hands.

"What is that?" Mrs. Bowyer said, looking round. "It is somebody in the
next room, I suppose. No, dear, I hope so too, for she would not be happy
if she remembered. Mary, dry your eyes, my dear. Try not to think of
this. I am sure there is some one in the next room. And you must try not
to look wretched, for all our sakes--"

"Wretched!" cried Mary, springing up. "I am not wretched." And she turned
with a countenance glowing and full of courage to the 
door. But there was
no one there,--no visitor lingering in the smaller room as sometimes
happened.

"I thought I heard some one come in," said the vicar's wife. "Didn't you
hear something, Mary? I suppose it is because I am so agitated with all
this, but I could have sworn I heard some one come in."

"There is nobody," said Mary, who, in the shock of the calamity which had
so suddenly changed the world to her, was perfectly calm. She did not
feel at all disposed to cry or "give way." It went to her head with a
thrill of pain, which was excitement as well, like a strong stimulant
suddenly applied; and she added, "I should like to go out a little, if
you don't mind, just to get used to the idea."

"My dear, I will get my hat in a moment--"

"No, please. It is not unkindness; but I must think it over by
myself,--by myself," Mary cried. She hurried away, while Mrs. Bowyer took
another survey of the outer room, and called the servant to know who had
been calling. Nobody had been calling, the maid said; but her mistress
still shook her head.

"It must have been some one who does not ring, who just opens the door,"
she said to herself. "That is the worst of the country. It might be Mrs.
Blunt, or Sophia Blackburn, or the curate, or half-a-dozen people,--and
they have just gone away when they heard me crying. How could I help
crying? But I wonder how much they heard, whoever it was."

VI.

It was winter, and snow was on the ground.

Lady Mary found herself on the road that led through her own village,
going home. It was like a picture of a wintry night,--like one of those
pictures that please the children at Christmas. A little snow sprinkled
on the roofs, just enough to define them, and on the edges of the roads;
every cottage window showing a ruddy glimmer in the twilight; the men
coming home from their work; the children, tied up in comforters and
caps, stealing in from the slides, and from the pond, where they were
forbidden to go; and, in the distance, the trees of the great House
standing up dark, turning the twili
ght into night. She had a curious
enjoyment in it, simple like that of a child, and a wish to talk to some
one out of the fullness of her heart. She overtook, her step being far
lighter than his, one of the men going home from his work, and spoke to
him, telling him with a smile not to be afraid; but he never so much as
raised his head, and went plodding on with his heavy step, not knowing
that she had spoken to him. She was startled by this; but said to
herself, that the men were dull, that their perceptions were confused,
and that it was getting dark; and went on, passing him quickly. His
breath made a cloud in the air as he walked, and his heavy plodding steps
sounded into the frosty night. She perceived that her own were invisible
and inaudible, with a curious momentary sensation, half of pleasure, half
of pain. She felt no cold, and she saw through the twilight as clearly as
if it had been day. There was no fatigue or sense of weakness in her; but
she had the strange, wistful feeling of an exile returning after long
years, not knowing how he may find those he had left. At one of the first
houses in the village there was a woman standing at her door, looking out
for her children; one who knew Lady Mary well. She stopped quite
cheerfully to bid her good evening, as she had done in her vigorous days,
before she grew old. It was a little experiment, too. She thought it
possible that Catherine would scream out, and perhaps fly from her; but
surely would be easily reassured when she heard the voice she knew, and
saw by her one who was no ghost, but her own kind mistress. But Catherine
took no notice when she spoke; she did not so much as turn her head. Lady
Mary stood by her patiently, with more and more of that wistful desire to
be recognized. She put her hand timidly upon the woman's arm, who was
thinking of nothing but her boys, and calling to them, straining her eyes
in the fading light. "Don't be afraid, they are coming, they are safe,"
she said, pressing Catherine's arm. But the woman never moved. She took
n
o notice. She called to a neighbor who was passing, to ask if she had
seen the children, and the two stood and talked in the dim air, not
conscious of the third who stood between them, looking from one to
another, astonished, paralyzed. Lady Mary had not been prepared for this;
she could not believe it even now. She repeated their names more and more
anxiously, and even plucked at their sleeves to call their attention. She
stood as a poor dependent sometimes stands, wistful, civil, trying to say
something that will please, while they talked and took no notice; and
then the neighbor passed on, and Catherine went into her house. It is
hard to be left out in the cold when others go into their cheerful
houses; but to be thus left outside of life, to speak and not be heard,
to stand unseen, astounded, unable to secure any attention! She had
thought they would be frightened, but it was not they who were
frightened. A great panic seized the woman who was no more of this world.
She had almost rejoiced to find herself back walking so lightly, so
strongly, finding everything easy that had been so hard; and yet but a
few minutes had passed, and she knew never more to be deceived, that she
was no longer of this world. What if she should be condemned to wander
forever among familiar places that knew her no more, appealing for a
look, a word, to those who could no longer see her, or hear her cry, or
know of her presence? Terror seized upon her, a chill and pang of fear
beyond description. She felt an impulse to fly wildly into the dark,
into the night, like a lost creature; to find again somehow, she could
not tell how, the door out of which she had come, and beat upon it wildly
with her hands, and implore to be taken home. For a moment she stood
looking round her, lost and alone in the wide universe; no one to speak
to her, no one to comfort her; outside of life altogether. Other rustic
figures, slow-stepping, leisurely, at their ease, went and came, one at a
time; but in this place, where every stranger was an object of curi
osity,
no one cast a glance at her. She was as if she had never been.

Presently she found herself entering her own house. It was all shut and
silent,--not a window lighted along the whole front of the house which
used to twinkle and glitter with lights. It soothed her somewhat to see
this, as if in evidence that the place had changed with her. She went in
silently, and the darkness was as day to her. Her own rooms were all shut
up, yet were open to her steps, which no external obstacle could limit.
There was still the sound of life below stairs, and in the housekeeper's
room a cheerful party gathered round the fire. It was then that she
turned first, with some wistful human attraction, towards the warmth and
light rather than to the still places in which her own life had been
passed. Mrs. Prentiss, the housekeeper, had her daughter with her on a
visit, and the daughter's baby lay asleep in a cradle placed upon two
chairs, outside the little circle of women round the table, one of whom
was Jervis, Lady Mary's maid. Jervis sat and worked and cried, and mixed
her words with little sobs. "I never thought as I should have had to take
another place," she said. "Brown and me, we made sure of a little
something to start upon. He's been here for twenty years, and so have
you, Mrs. Prentiss; and me, as nobody can say I wasn't faithful night and
day."

"I never had that confidence in my lady to expect anything," Prentiss
said.

"Oh, mother, don't say that: many and many a day you've said, 'When my
lady dies--'"

"And we've all said it," said Jervis. "I can't think how she did it, nor
why she did it; for she was a kind lady, though appearances is against
her."

"She was one of them, and I've known a many, as could not abide to see a
gloomy face," said the housekeeper. "She kept us all comfortable for the
sake of being comfortable herself, but no more."

"Oh, you are hard upon my lady!" cried Jervis, "and I can't bear to hear
a word against her, though it's been an awful disappointment to me."

"What's you or me, or any one,
" cried Mrs. Prentiss, "in comparison of
that poor little thing that can't work for her living like we can; that
is left on the charity of folks she don't belong to? I'd have forgiven my
lady anything, if she'd done what was right by Miss Mary. You'll get a
place, and a good place; and me, they'll leave me here when the new folks
come as have taken the house. But what will become of her, the darling?
and not a penny, nor a friend, nor one to look to her? Oh, you selfish
old woman! oh, you heart of stone! I just hope you are feeling it where
you're gone," the housekeeper cried.

But as she said this, the woman did not know who was looking at her with
wide, wistful eyes, holding out her hands in appeal, receiving every word
as if it had been a blow,--though she knew it was useless. Lady Mary
could not help it. She cried out to them, "Have pity upon me! Have pity
upon me! I am not cruel, as you think," with a keen anguish in her voice,
which seemed to be sharp enough to pierce the very air and go up to the
skies. And so, perhaps, it did; but never touched the human atmosphere in
which she stood a stranger. Jervis was threading her needle when her
mistress uttered that cry; but her hand did not tremble, nor did the
thread deflect a hair's-breadth from the straight line. The young mother
alone seemed to be moved by some faint disturbance. "Hush!" she said, "is
he waking?"--looking towards the cradle. But as the baby made no further
sound, she too, returned to her sewing; and they sat bending their heads
over their work round the table, and continued their talk. The room was
very comfortable, bright, and warm, as Lady Mary had liked all her rooms
to be. The warm firelight danced upon the walls; the women talked in
cheerful tones. She stood outside their circle, and looked at them with a
wistful face. Their notice would have been more sweet to her, as she
stood in that great humiliation, than in other times the look of a queen.

"But what is the matter with baby?" the mother said, rising hastily.

It was with no servile
 intention of securing a look from that little
prince of life that she who was not of this world had stepped aside
forlorn, and looked at him in his cradle. Though she was not of this
world, she was still a woman, and had nursed her children in her arms.
She bent over the infant by the soft impulse of nature, tenderly, with no
interested thought. But the child saw her; was it possible? He turned his
head towards her, and flickered his baby hands, and cooed with that
indescribable voice that goes to every woman's heart. Lady Mary felt such
a thrill of pleasure go through her, as no incident had given her for
long years. She put out her arms to him as his mother snatched him from
his little bed; and he, which was more wonderful, stretched towards her
in his innocence, turning away from them all.

"He wants to go to some one," cried the mother. "Oh look, look, for God's
sake! Who is there that the child sees?"

"There's no one there,--not a soul. Now dearie, dearie, be reasonable.
You can see for yourself there's not a creature," said the grandmother.

"Oh, my baby, my baby! He sees something we can't see," the young woman
cried. "Something has happened to his father, or he's going to be taken
from me!" she said, holding the child to her in a sudden passion. The
other women rushed to her to console her,--the mother with reason, and
Jervis with poetry. "It's the angels whispering, like the song says." Oh,
the pang that was in the heart of the other whom they could not hear! She
stood wondering how it could be,--wondering with an amazement beyond
words, how all that was in her heart, the love and the pain, and the
sweetness and bitterness, could all be hidden,--all hidden by that air in
which the women stood so clear! She held out her hands, she spoke to
them, telling who she was, but no one paid any attention; only the little
dog Fido, who had been basking by the fire, sprang up, looked at her, and
retreating slowly backwards till he reached the wall, sat down there and
looked at her again, with now and then a little
 bark of inquiry. The dog
saw her. This gave her a curious pang of humiliation, yet pleasure. She
went away out of that little centre of human life in a great excitement
and thrill of her whole being. The child had seen her, and the dog; but,
oh heavens! how was she to work out her purpose by such auxiliaries as
these?

She went up to her old bedchamber with unshed tears heavy about her eyes,
and a pathetic smile quivering on her mouth. It touched her beyond
measure that the child should have that confidence in her. "Then God is
still with me," she said to herself. Her room, which had been so warm and
bright, lay desolate in the stillness of the night; but she wanted no
light, for the darkness was no darkness to her. She looked round her for
a little, wondering to think how far away from her now was this scene of
her old life, but feeling no pain in the sight of it,--only a kind
indulgence for the foolish simplicity which had taken so much pride in
all these infantile elements of living. She went to the little Italian
cabinet which stood against the wall, feeling now at least that she could
do as she would,--that here there was no blank of human unconsciousness
to stand in her way. But she was met by something that baffled and vexed
her once more. She felt the polished surface of the wood under her hand,
and saw all the pretty ornamentation, the inlaid-work, the delicate
carvings, which she knew so well; they swam in her eyes a little, as if
they were part of some phantasmagoria about her, existing only in her
vision. Yet the smooth surface resisted her touch; and when she withdrew
a step from it, it stood before her solidly and square, as it had stood
always--a glory to the place. She put forth her hands upon it, and could
have traced the waving lines of the exquisite work, in which some artist
soul had worked itself out in the old times; but though she thus saw it
and felt, she could not with all her endeavors find the handle of the
drawer, the richly-wrought knob of ivory, the little door that opened
into the 
secret place. How long she stood by it, attempting again and
again to find what was as familiar to her as her own hand, what was
before her, visible in every line, what she felt with fingers which began
to tremble, she could not tell. Time did not count with her as with
common men. She did not grow weary, or require refreshment or rest, like
those who were still of this world. Put at length her head grew giddy and
her heart failed. A cold despair took possession of her soul. She could
do nothing, then,--nothing; neither by help of man, neither by use of her
own faculties, which were greater and clearer than ever before. She sank
down upon the floor at the foot of that old toy, which had pleased her in
the softness of her old age, to which she had trusted the fortunes of
another; by which, in wantonness and folly she had sinned, she had
sinned! And she thought she saw standing round her companions in the land
she had left, saying, "It is impossible, impossible!" with infinite pity
in their eyes; and the face of him who had given her permission to come,
yet who had said no word to her to encourage her in what was against
nature. And there came into her heart a longing to fly, to get home, to
be back in the land where her fellows were, and her appointed place. A
child lost, how pitiful that is! without power to reason and divine how
help will come; but a soul lost, outside of one method of existence,
withdrawn from the other, knowing no way to retrace its steps, nor how
help can come! There had been no bitterness in passing from earth to the
land where she had gone; but now there came upon her soul, in all the
power of her new faculties, the bitterness of death. The place which was
hers she had forsaken and left, and the place that had been hers knew her
no more.

VII.

Mary, when she left her kind friend in the vicarage, went out and took a
long walk. She had received a shock so great that it took all sensation
from her, and threw her into the seething and surging of an excitement
altogether beyond her control. She
 could not think until she had got
familiar with the idea, which indeed had been vaguely shaping itself in
her mind ever since she had emerged from the first profound gloom and
prostration of the shadow of death. She had never definitely thought of
her position before,--never even asked herself what was to become of her
when Lady Mary died. She did not see, any more than Lady Mary did, why
she should ever die; and girls, who have never wanted anything in their
lives, who have had no sharp experience to enlighten them, are slow to
think upon such subjects. She had not expected anything; her mind had not
formed any idea of inheritance; and it had not surprised her to hear of
the earl, who was Lady Mary's natural heir, nor to feel herself separated
from the house in which all her previous life had been passed. But there
had been gradually dawning upon her a sense that she had come to a crisis
in her life, and that she must soon be told what was to become of her. It
was not so urgent as that she should ask any questions; but it began to
appear very clearly in her mind that things were not to be with her as
they had been. She had heard the complaints and astonishment of the
servants, to whom Lady Mary had left nothing, with resentment,--Jervis,
who could not marry and take her lodging-house, but must wait until she
had saved more money, and wept to think, after all her devotion, of
having to take another place; and Mrs. Prentiss, the housekeeper, who was
cynical, and expounded Lady Mary's kindness to her servants to be the
issue of a refined selfishness; and Brown, who had sworn subdued oaths,
and had taken the liberty of representing himself to Mary as "in the same
box" with herself. Mary had been angry, very angry at all this; and she
had not by word or look given any one to understand that she felt herself
"in the same box." But yet she had been vaguely anxious, curious,
desiring to know. And she had not even begun to think what she should do.
That seemed a sort of affront to her godmother's memory, at all events,
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Charles Aldarondo,
Carol David and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

SALUTE TO ADVENTURERS

BY

JOHN BUCHAN

[Illustration: 1798 EDINBURGH]

TO MAJOR-GENERAL THE HON. SIR REGINALD TALBOT, K.C.B.

 I tell of old Virginian ways;
 And who more fit my tale to scan
 Than you, who knew in far-off days
 The eager horse of Sheridan;
 Who saw the sullen meads of fate,
 The tattered scrub, the blood-drenched sod,
 Where Lee, the greatest of the great,
 Bent to the storm of God?

 I tell lost tales of savage wars;
 And you have known the desert sands,
 The camp beneath the silver stars,
 The rush at dawn of Arab bands,
 The fruitless toil, the hopeless dream,
 The fainting feet, the faltering breath,
 While Gordon by the ancient stream
 Waited at ease on death.

 And now, aloof from camp and field,
 You spend your sunny autumn hours
 Where the green folds of Chiltern shield
 The nooks of Thames amid the flowers:
 You who have borne that name of pride,
 In honour clean from fear or stain,
 Which Talbot won by Henry's side
 In vanquished Aquitaine.

_The reader is asked to believe that most of the characters in this
tale and many of the incidents have good historical warrant. The figure
of Muckle John Gib will be familiar to the readers of Patrick Walker_.

CONTENTS.

 * * * * *

 I. THE SWEET-SINGERS
 II. OF A HIGH-HANDED LADY
 III. THE CANONGATE TOLBOOTH
 IV. OF A STAIRHEAD AND A SEA-CAPTAIN
 V. MY FIRST COMING TO VIRGINIA
 VI. TELLS OF MY EDUCATION
 VII. I BECOME AN UNPOPULAR CHARACTER
 VIII. RED RINGAN
 IX. VARIOUS DOINGS IN THE SAVANNAH
 X. I HEAR AN OLD SONG
 XI. GRAVITY OUT OF BED
 XII. A WORD AT THE HARBOUR-SIDE
 XIII. I STUMBLE INTO A GREAT FOLLY
 XIV. A WILD WAGER
 XV. I GATHER THE CLANS
 XVI. THE FORD OF THE RAPIDAN
 XVII. I RETRACE MY STEPS
 XVIII. OUR ADVENTURE RECEIVES A RECRUIT
 XIX. CLEARWATER GLEN
 XX. THE STOCKADE AMONG THE PINES
 XXI. A HAWK SCREAMS IN THE EVENING
 XXII. HOW A FOOL MUST GO HIS OWN ROAD
 XXIII. THE HORN OF DIARMAID SOUNDS
 XXIV. I SUFFER THE HEATHEN'S 
RAGE
 XXV. EVENTS ON THE HILL-SIDE
 XXVI. SHALAH
 XXVII. HOW I STROVE ALL NIGHT WITH THE DEVIL
XXVIII. HOW THREE SOULS FOUND THEIR HERITAGE

SALUTE TO ADVENTURERS.

CHAPTER I.

THE SWEET-SINGERS.

When I was a child in short-coats a spaewife came to the town-end, and
for a silver groat paid by my mother she riddled my fate. It came to
little, being no more than that I should miss love and fortune in
the sunlight and find them in the rain. The woman was a haggard,
black-faced gipsy, and when my mother asked for more she turned on her
heel and spoke gibberish; for which she was presently driven out of the
place by Tarn Roberton, the baillie, and the village dogs. But the
thing stuck in my memory, and together with the fact that I was a
Thursday's bairn, and so, according to the old rhyme, "had far to go,"
convinced me long ere I had come to man's estate that wanderings and
surprises would be my portion.

It is in the rain that this tale begins. I was just turned of eighteen,
and in the back-end of a dripping September set out from our moorland
house of Auchencairn to complete my course at Edinburgh College. The
year was 1685, an ill year for our countryside; for the folk were at
odds with the King's Government, about religion, and the land was full
of covenants and repressions. Small wonder that I was backward with my
colleging, and at an age when most lads are buckled to a calling was
still attending the prelections of the Edinburgh masters. My father had
blown hot and cold in politics, for he was fiery and unstable by
nature, and swift to judge a cause by its latest professor. He had cast
out with the Hamilton gentry, and, having broken the head of a dragoon
in the change-house of Lesmahagow, had his little estate mulcted in
fines. All of which, together with some natural curiosity and a family
love of fighting, sent him to the ill-fated field of Bothwell Brig,
from which he was lucky to escape with a bullet in the shoulder.
Thereupon he had been put to the horn, and was now lying hid in a den
in the mosses of Do
uglas Water. It was a sore business for my mother,
who had the task of warding off prying eyes from our ragged household
and keeping the fugitive in life. She was a Tweedside woman, as strong
and staunch as an oak, and with a heart in her like Robert Bruce. And
she was cheerful, too, in the worst days, and would go about the place
with a bright eye and an old song on her lips. But the thing was beyond
a woman's bearing; so I had perforce to forsake my colleging and take a
hand with our family vexations. The life made me hard and watchful,
trusting no man, and brusque and stiff towards the world. And yet all
the while youth was working in me like yeast, so that a spring day or a
west wind would make me forget my troubles and thirst to be about a
kindlier business than skulking in a moorland dwelling.

My mother besought me to leave her. "What," she would say, "has young
blood to do with this bickering of kirks and old wives' lamentations?
You have to learn and see and do, Andrew. And it's time you were
beginning." But I would not listen to her, till by the mercy of God we
got my father safely forth of Scotland, and heard that he was dwelling
snugly at Leyden in as great patience as his nature allowed. Thereupon
I bethought me of my neglected colleging, and, leaving my books and
plenishing to come by the Lanark carrier, set out on foot for
Edinburgh.

The distance is only a day's walk for an active man, but I started
late, and purposed to sleep the night at a cousin's house by
Kirknewton. Often in bright summer days I had travelled the road, when
the moors lay yellow in the sun and larks made a cheerful chorus. In
such weather it is a pleasant road, with long prospects to cheer the
traveller, and kindly ale-houses to rest his legs in. But that day it
rained as if the floodgates of heaven had opened. When I crossed Clyde
by the bridge at Hyndford the water was swirling up to the key-stone.
The ways were a foot deep in mire, and about Carnwath the bog had
overflowed and the whole neighbourhood swam in a loch. It was 
pitiful
to see the hay afloat like water-weeds, and the green oats scarcely
showing above the black floods. In two minutes after starting I was wet
to the skin, and I thanked Providence I had left my little Dutch
_Horace_ behind me in the book-box. By three in the afternoon I was as
unkempt as any tinker, my hair plastered over my eyes, and every fold
of my coat running like a gutter.

Presently the time came for me to leave the road and take the short-cut
over the moors; but in the deluge, where the eyes could see no more
than a yard or two into a grey wall of rain, I began to misdoubt my
knowledge of the way. On the left I saw a stone dovecot and a cluster
of trees about a gateway; so, knowing how few and remote were the
dwellings on the moorland, I judged it wiser to seek guidance before I
strayed too far.

The place was grown up with grass and sore neglected. Weeds made a
carpet on the avenue, and the <DW18>s were broke by cattle at a dozen
places. Suddenly through the falling water there stood up the gaunt end
of a house. It was no cot or farm, but a proud mansion, though badly
needing repair. A low stone wall bordered a pleasance, but the garden
had fallen out of order, and a dial-stone lay flat on the earth.

My first thought was that the place was tenantless, till I caught sight
of a thin spire of smoke struggling against the downpour. I hoped to
come on some gardener or groom from whom I could seek direction, so I
skirted the pleasance to find the kitchen door. A glow of fire in one
of the rooms cried welcome to my shivering bones, and on the far side
of the house I found signs of better care. The rank grasses had been
mown to make a walk, and in a corner flourished a little group of
pot-herbs. But there was no man to be seen, and I was about to retreat
and try the farm-town, when out of the doorway stepped a girl.

She was maybe sixteen years old, tall and well-grown, but of her face I
could see little, since she was all muffled in a great horseman's
cloak. The hood of it covered her hair, and the wide 
flaps were folded
over her bosom. She sniffed the chill wind, and held her head up to the
rain, and all the while, in a clear childish voice, she was singing.

It was a song I had heard, one made by the great Montrose, who had
suffered shameful death in Edinburgh thirty years before. It was a
man's song, full of pride and daring, and not for the lips of a young
maid. But that hooded girl in the wild weather sang it with a challenge
and a fire that no cavalier could have bettered.

 "My dear and only love, I pray
 That little world of thee
 Be governed by no other sway
 Than purest monarchy."

 "For if confusion have a part,
 Which virtuous souls abhor,
 And hold a synod in thy heart,
 I'll never love thee more."

So she sang, like youth daring fortune to give it aught but the best.
The thing thrilled me, so that I stood gaping. Then she looked aside
and saw me.

"Your business, man?" she cried, with an imperious voice.

I took off my bonnet, and made an awkward bow.

"Madam, I am on my way to Edinburgh," I stammered, for I was mortally
ill at ease with women. "I am uncertain of the road in this weather,
and come to beg direction."

"You left the road three miles back," she said.

"But I am for crossing the moors," I said.

She pushed back her hood and looked at me with laughing eyes, I saw how
dark those eyes were, and how raven black her wandering curls of hair.

"You have come to the right place," she cried. "I can direct you as
well as any Jock or Sandy about the town. Where are you going to?"

I said Kirknewton for my night's lodging.

"Then march to the right, up by yon planting, till you come to the Howe
Burn. Follow it to the top, and cross the hill above its well-head. The
wind is blowing from the east, so keep it on your right cheek. That
will bring you to the springs of the Leith Water, and in an hour or two
from there you will be back on the highroad."

She used a manner of speech foreign to our parts, but very soft and
pleasant in the ear. I thanked her, clapped on my dripping bonnet, and
made for the
 <DW18>s beyond the garden. Once I looked back, but she had
no further interest in me. In the mist I could see her peering once
more skyward, and through the drone of the deluge came an echo of her
song.

 "I'll serve thee in such noble ways,
 As never man before;
 I'll deck and crown thy head with bays,
 And love thee more and more."

The encounter cheered me greatly, and lifted the depression which the
eternal drizzle had settled on my spirits. That bold girl singing a
martial ballad to the storm and taking pleasure in the snellness of the
air, was like a rousing summons or a cup of heady wine. The picture
ravished my fancy. The proud dark eye, the little wanton curls peeping
from the hood, the whole figure alert with youth and life--they cheered
my recollection as I trod that sour moorland. I tried to remember her
song, and hummed it assiduously till I got some kind of version, which
I shouted in my tuneless voice. For I was only a young lad, and my life
had been bleak and barren. Small wonder that the call of youth set
every fibre of me a-quiver.

I had done better to think of the road. I found the Howe Burn readily
enough, and scrambled up its mossy bottom. By this time the day was
wearing late, and the mist was deepening into the darker shades of
night. It is an eery business to be out on the hills at such a season,
for they are deathly quiet except for the lashing of the storm. You
will never hear a bird cry or a sheep bleat or a weasel scream. The
only sound is the drum of the rain on the peat or its plash on a
boulder, and the low surge of the swelling streams. It is the place and
time for dark deeds, for the heart grows savage; and if two enemies met
in the hollow of the mist only one would go away.

I climbed the hill above the Howe burn-head, keeping the wind on my
right cheek as the girl had ordered. That took me along a rough ridge
of mountain pitted with peat-bogs into which I often stumbled. Every
minute I expected to descend and find the young Water of Leith, but if
I held to my directions I must
 still mount. I see now that the wind
must have veered to the south-east, and that my plan was leading me
into the fastnesses of the hills; but I would have wandered for weeks
sooner than disobey the word of the girl who sang in the rain.
Presently I was on a steep hill-side, which I ascended only to drop
through a tangle of screes and jumper to the mires of a great bog. When
I had crossed this more by luck than good guidance, I had another
scramble on the steeps where the long, tough heather clogged my
footsteps.

About eight o'clock I awoke to the conviction that I was hopelessly
lost, and must spend the night in the wilderness. The rain still fell
unceasingly through the pit-mirk, and I was as sodden and bleached as
the bent I trod on. A night on the hills had no terrors for me; but I
was mortally cold and furiously hungry, and my temper grew bitter
against the world. I had forgotten the girl and her song, and desired
above all things on earth a dry bed and a chance of supper.

I had been plunging and slipping in the dark mosses for maybe two hours
when, looking down from a little rise, I caught a gleam of light.
Instantly my mood changed to content. It could only be a herd's
cottage, where I might hope for a peat fire, a bicker of brose, and, at
the worst, a couch of dry bracken.

I began to run, to loosen my numbed limbs, and presently fell headlong
over a little scaur into a moss-hole. When I crawled out, with peat
plastering my face and hair, I found I had lost my notion of the
light's whereabouts. I strove to find another hillock, but I seemed now
to be in a flat space of bog. I could only grope blindly forwards away
from the moss-hole, hoping that soon I might come to a lift in the
hill.

Suddenly from the distance of about half a mile there fell on my ears
the most hideous wailing. It was like the cats on a frosty night; it
was like the clanging of pots in a tinker's cart; and it would rise now
and then to a shriek of rhapsody such as I have heard at field-preachings.
Clearly the sound was human, though
 from what kind of crazy
human creature I could not guess. Had I been less utterly forwandered
and the night less wild, I think I would have sped away from it as fast
as my legs had carried me. But I had little choice. After all, I
reflected, the worst bedlamite must have food and shelter, and, unless
the gleam had been a will-o'-the-wisp, I foresaw a fire. So I hastened
in the direction of the noise.

I came on it suddenly in a hollow of the moss. There stood a ruined
sheepfold, and in the corner of two walls some plaids had been
stretched to make a tent. Before this burned a big fire of heather
roots and bog-wood, which hissed and crackled in the rain. Round it
squatted a score of women, with plaids drawn tight over their heads,
who rocked and moaned like a flight of witches, and two--three men were
on their knees at the edge of the ashes. But what caught my eye was the
figure that stood before the tent. It was a long fellow, who held his
arms to heaven, and sang in a great throaty voice the wild dirge I had
been listening to. He held a book in one hand, from which he would
pluck leaves and cast them on the fire, and at every burnt-offering a
wail of ecstasy would go up from the hooded women and kneeling men.
Then with a final howl he hurled what remained of his book into the
flames, and with upraised hands began some sort of prayer.

I would have fled if I could; but Providence willed it otherwise. The
edge of the bank on which I stood had been rotted by the rain, and the
whole thing gave under my feet. I slithered down into the sheepfold,
and pitched headforemost among the worshipping women. And at that, with
a yell, the long man leaped over the fire and had me by the throat.

My bones were too sore and weary to make resistance. He dragged me to
the ground before the tent, while the rest set up a skirling that
deafened my wits. There he plumped me down, and stood glowering at me
like a cat with a sparrow.

"Who are ye, and what do ye here, disturbing the remnant of Israel?"
says he.

I had no breath in me to 
speak, so one of the men answered.

"Some gangrel body, precious Mr. John," he said.

"Nay," said another; "it's a spy o' the Amalekites."

"It's a herd frae Linton way," spoke up a woman. "He favours the look
of one Zebedee Linklater."

The long man silenced her. "The word of the Lord came unto His prophet
Gib, saying, Smite and spare not, for the cup of the abominations of
Babylon is now full. The hour cometh, yea, it is at hand, when the
elect of the earth, meaning me and two--three others, will be enthroned
above the Gentiles, and Dagon and Baal will be cast down. Are ye still
in the courts of bondage, young man, or seek ye the true light which
the Holy One of Israel has vouchsafed to me, John Gib, his unworthy
prophet?"

Now I knew into what rabble I had strayed. It was the company who
called themselves the Sweet-Singers, led by one Muckle John Gib, once a
mariner of Borrowstoneness-on-Forth. He had long been a thorn in the
side of the preachers, holding certain strange heresies that
discomforted even the wildest of the hill-folk. They had clapped him
into prison; but the man, being three parts mad had been let go, and
ever since had been making strife in the westland parts of Clydesdale.
I had heard much of him, and never any good. It was his way to draw
after him a throng of demented women, so that the poor, draggle-tailed
creatures forgot husband and bairns and followed him among the mosses.
There were deeds of violence and blood to his name, and the look of him
was enough to spoil a man's sleep. He was about six and a half feet
high, with a long, lean head and staring cheek bones. His brows grew
like bushes, and beneath glowed his evil and sunken eyes. I remember
that he had monstrous long arms, which hung almost to his knees, and a
great hairy breast which showed through a rent in his seaman's jerkin.
In that strange place, with the dripping spell of night about me, and
the fire casting weird lights and shadows, he seemed like some devil of
the hills awakened by magic from his ancient grave.

But I saw 
it was time for me to be speaking up.

"I am neither gangrel, nor spy, nor Amalekite, nor yet am I Zebedee
Linklater. My name is Andrew Garvald, and I have to-day left my home to
make my way to Edinburgh College. I tried a short road in the mist, and
here I am."

"Nay, but what seek ye?" cried Muckle John. "The Lord has led ye to our
company by His own good way. What seek ye? I say again, and yea, a
third time."

"I go to finish my colleging," I said.

He laughed a harsh, croaking laugh. "Little ye ken, young man. We
travel to watch the surprising judgment which is about to overtake the
wicked city of Edinburgh. An angel hath revealed it to me in a dream.
Fire and brimstone will descend upon it as on Sodom and Gomorrah, and
it will be consumed and wither away, with its cruel Ahabs and its
painted Jezebels, its subtle Doegs and its lying Balaams, its priests
and its judges, and its proud men of blood, its Bible-idolaters and its
false prophets, its purple and damask, its gold and its fine linen, and
it shall be as Tyre and Sidon, so that none shall know the site
thereof. But we who follow the Lord and have cleansed His word from
human abominations, shall leap as he-goats upon the mountains, and
enter upon the heritage of the righteous from Beth-peor even unto the
crossings of Jordan."

In reply to this rigmarole I asked for food, since my head was
beginning to swim from my long fast. This, to my terror, put him into a
great rage.

"Ye are carnally minded, like the rest of them. Ye will get no fleshly
provender here; but if ye be not besotted in your sins ye shall drink
of the Water of Life that floweth freely and eat of the honey and manna
of forgiveness."

And then he appeared to forget my very existence. He fell into a sort
of trance, with his eyes fixed on vacancy. There was a dead hush in the
place, nothing but the crackle of the fire and the steady drip of the
rain. I endured it as well as I might, for though my legs were sorely
cramped, I did not dare to move an inch.

After nigh half an hour he seemed to aw
ake. "Peace be with you," he
said to his followers. "It is the hour for sleep and prayer. I, John
Gib, will wrestle all night for your sake, as Jacob strove with the
angel." With that he entered the tent.

No one spoke to me, but the ragged company sought each their
sleeping-place. A woman with a kindly face jogged me on the elbow, and
from the neuk of her plaid gave me a bit of oatcake and a piece of
roasted moorfowl. This made my supper, with a long drink from a
neighbouring burn. None hindered my movements, so, liking little the
smell of wet, uncleanly garments which clung around the fire, I made my
bed in a heather bush in the lee of a boulder, and from utter weariness
fell presently asleep.

CHAPTER II.

OF A HIGH-HANDED LADY.

The storm died away in the night, and I awoke to a clear, rain-washed
world and the chill of an autumn morn. I was as stiff and sore as if I
had been whipped, my clothes were sodden and heavy, and not till I had
washed my face and hands in the burn and stretched my legs up the
hill-side did I feel restored to something of my ordinary briskness.

The encampment looked weird indeed as seen in the cruel light of day.
The women were cooking oatmeal on iron girdles, but the fire burned
smokily, and the cake I got was no better than dough. They were a
disjaskit lot, with tousled hair and pinched faces, in which shone
hungry eyes. Most were barefoot, and all but two--three were ancient
beldames who should have been at home in the chimney corner. I noticed
one decent-looking young woman, who had the air of a farm servant; and
two were well-fed country wives who had probably left a brood of
children to mourn them. The men were little better. One had the sallow
look of a weaver, another was a hind with a big, foolish face, and
there was a slip of a lad who might once have been a student of
divinity. But each had a daftness in the eye and something weak and
unwholesome in the visage, so that they were an offence to the fresh,
gusty moorland.

All but Muckle John himself. He came out of his tent 
and prayed till
the hill-sides echoed. It was a tangle of bedlamite ravings, with long
screeds from the Scriptures intermixed like currants in a bag-pudding.
But there was power in the creature, in the strange lift of his voice,
in his grim jowl, and in the fire of his sombre eyes. The others I
pitied, but him I hated and feared. On him and his kind were to be
blamed all the madness of the land, which had sent my father overseas
and desolated our dwelling. So long as crazy prophets preached
brimstone and fire, so long would rough-shod soldiers and cunning
lawyers profit by their folly; and often I prayed in those days that
the two evils might devour each other.

It was time that I was cutting loose from this ill-omened company and
continuing my road Edinburgh-wards. We were lying in a wide trough of
the Pentland Hills, which I well remembered. The folk of the plains
called it the Cauldstaneslap, and it made an easy path for sheep and
cattle between the Lothians and Tweeddale. The camp had been snugly
chosen, for, except by the gleam of a fire in the dark, it was
invisible from any distance. Muckle John was so filled with his
vapourings that I could readily slip off down the burn and join the
southern highway at the village of Linton.

I was on the verge of going when I saw that which pulled me up. A rider
was coming over the moor. The horse leaped the burn lightly, and before
I could gather my wits was in the midst of the camp, where Muckle John
was vociferating to heaven.

My heart gave a great bound, for I saw it was the girl who had sung to
me in the rain. She rode a fine sorrel, with the easy seat of a skilled
horsewoman. She was trimly clad in a green riding-coat, and over the
lace collar of it her hair fell in dark, clustering curls. Her face was
grave, like a determined child's; but the winds of the morning had
whipped it to a rosy colour, so that into that clan of tatterdemalions
she rode like Proserpine descending among the gloomy Shades. In her
hand she carried a light riding-whip.

A scream from the wo
men brought Muckle John out of his rhapsodies. He
stared blankly at the slim girl who confronted him with hand on hip.

"What seekest thou here, thou shameless woman?" he roared.

"I am come," said she, "for my tirewoman, Janet Somerville, who left me
three days back without a reason. Word was brought me that she had
joined a mad company called the Sweet-Singers, that lay at the
Cauldstaneslap. Janet's a silly body, but she means no ill, and her
mother is demented at the loss of her. So I have come for Janet."

Her cool eyes ran over the assembly till they lighted on the one I had
already noted as more decent-like than the rest. At the sight of the
girl the woman bobbed a curtsy.

"Come out of it, silly Janet," said she on the horse; "you'll never
make a Sweet-Singer, for there's not a notion of a tune in your head."

"It's not singing that I seek, my leddy," said the woman, blushing. "I
follow the call o' the Lord by the mouth o' His servant, John Gib."

"You'll follow the call of your mother by the mouth of me, Elspeth
Blair. Forget these havers, Janet, and come back like a good Christian
soul. Mount and be quick. There's room behind me on Bess."

The words were spoken in a kindly, wheedling tone, and the girl's face
broke into the prettiest of smiles. Perhaps Janet would have obeyed,
but Muckle John, swift to prevent defection, took up the parable.

"Begone, ye daughter of Heth!" he bellowed, "ye that are like the
devils that pluck souls from the way of salvation. Begone, or it is
strongly borne in upon me that ye will dree the fate of the women of
Midian, of whom it is written that they were slaughtered and spared
not."

The girl did not look his way. She had her coaxing eyes on her halting
maid. "Come, Janet, woman," she said again. "It's no job for a decent
lass to be wandering at the tail of a crazy warlock."

The word roused Muckle John to fury. He sprang forward, caught the
sorrel's bridle, and swung it round. The girl did not move, but looked
him square in the face, the young eyes fronting his demoniac 
glower.
Then very swiftly her arm rose, and she laid the lash of her whip
roundly over his shoulders.

The man snarled like a beast, leaped back and plucked from his seaman's
belt a great horse-pistol. I heard the click of it cocking, and the
next I knew it was levelled at the girl's breast. The sight of her and
the music of her voice had so enthralled me that I had made no plan as
to my own conduct. But this sudden peril put fire into my heels, and in
a second I was at his side. I had brought from home a stout shepherd's
staff, with which I struck the muzzle upwards. The pistol went off in a
great stench of powder, but the bullet wandered to the clouds.

Muckle John let the thing fall into the moss, and plucked another
weapon from his belt. This was an ugly knife, such as a cobbler uses
for paring hides. I knew the seaman's trick of throwing, having seen
their brawls at the pier of Leith, and I had no notion for the steel in
my throat. The man was far beyond me in size and strength, so I dared
not close with him. Instead, I gave him the point of my staff with all
my power straight in the midriff. The knife slithered harmlessly over
my shoulder, and he fell backwards into the heather.

There was no time to be lost, for the whole clan came round me like a
flock of daws. One of the men, the slim lad, had a pistol, but I saw by
the way he handled it that it was unprimed. I was most afraid of the
women, who with their long claws would have scratched my eyes out, and
I knew they would not spare the girl. To her I turned anxiously, and,
to my amazement, she was laughing. She recognized me, for she cried
out, "Is this the way to Kirknewton, sir?" And all the time she
shook with merriment. In that hour I thought her as daft as the
Sweet-Singers, whose nails were uncommonly near my cheek.

I got her bridle, tumbled over the countryman with a kick, and forced
her to the edge of the sheepfold. But she wheeled round again, crying,
"I must have Janet," and faced the crowd with her whip. That was well
enough, but I saw Muckle 
John staggering to his feet, and I feared
desperately for his next move. The girl was either mad or
extraordinarily brave.

"Get back, you pitiful knaves," she cried. "Lay a hand on me, and I
will cut you to ribbons. Make haste, Janet, and quit this folly."

It was gallant talk, but there was no sense in it. Muckle John was on
his feet, half the clan had gone round to our rear, and in a second or
two she would have been torn from the saddle. A headstrong girl was
beyond my management, and my words of entreaty were lost in the babel
of cries.

But just then there came another sound. From the four quarters of the
moor there closed in upon us horsemen. They came silently and were
about us before I had a hint of their presence. It was a troop of
dragoons in the king's buff and scarlet, and they rode us down as if we
had been hares in a field. The next I knew of it I was sprawling on the
ground with a dizzy head, and horses trampling around me, I had a
glimpse of Muckle John with a pistol at his nose, and the sorrel
curveting and plunging in a panic. Then I bethought myself of saving my
bones, and crawled out of the mellay behind the sheepfold.

Presently I realized that this was the salvation I had been seeking.
Gib was being pinioned, and two of the riders were speaking with the
girl. The women hung together like hens in a storm, while the dragoons
laid about them with the flat of their swords. There was one poor
creature came running my way, and after her followed on foot a long
fellow, who made clutches at her hair. He caught her with ease, and
proceeded to bind her hands with great brutality.

"Ye beldame," he said, with many oaths, "I'll pare your talons for ye."

Now I, who a minute before had been in danger from this very crew, was
smitten with a sudden compunction. Except for Muckle John, they were so
pitifully feeble, a pack of humble, elderly folk, worn out with fasting
and marching and ill weather. I had been sickened by their crazy
devotions, but I was more sickened by this man's barbarity. It was the
wom
an, too, who had given me food the night before.

So I stepped out, and bade the man release her.

He was a huge, sunburned ruffian, and for answer aimed a clour at my
head. "Take that, my mannie," he said. "I'll learn ye to follow the
petticoats."

His scorn put me into a fury, in which anger at his brutishness and the
presence of the girl on the sorrel moved my pride to a piece of naked
folly. I flew at his throat, and since I had stood on a little
eminence, the force of my assault toppled him over. My victory lasted
scarcely a minute. He flung me from him like a feather, then picked me
up and laid on to me with the flat of his sword.

"Ye thrawn jackanapes," he cried, as he beat me. "Ye'll pay dear for
playing your pranks wi' John Donald."

I was a child in his mighty grasp, besides having no breath left in me
to resist. He tied my hands and legs, haled me to his horse, and flung
me sack-like over the crupper. There was no more shamefaced lad in the
world than me at that moment, for coming out of the din I heard a
girl's light laughter.

CHAPTER III.

THE CANONGATE TOLBOOTH.

"Never daunton youth" was, I remember, a saying of my grandmother's;
but it was the most dauntoned youth in Scotland that now jogged over
the moor to the Edinburgh highroad. I had a swimming head, and a hard
crupper to grate my ribs at every movement, and my captor would shift
me about with as little gentleness as if I had been a bag of oats for
his horse's feed. But it was the ignominy of the business that kept me
on the brink of tears. First, I was believed to be one of the maniac
company of the Sweet-Singers, whom my soul abhorred; _item_, I had been
worsted by a trooper with shameful ease, so that my manhood cried out
against me. Lastly, I had cut the sorriest figure in the eyes of that
proud girl. For a moment I had been bold, and fancied myself her
saviour, but all I had got by it was her mocking laughter.

They took us down from the hill to the highroad a little north of
Linton village, where I was dumped on the ground, my legs unt
ied, and
my hands strapped to a stirrup leather. The women were given a country
cart to ride in, and the men, including Muckle John, had to run each by
a trooper's leg. The girl on the sorrel had gone, and so had the maid
Janet, for I could not see her among the dishevelled wretches in the
cart. The thought of that girl filled me with bitter animosity. She
must have known that I was none of Gib's company, for had I not risked
my life at the muzzle of his pistol? I had taken her part as bravely as
I knew how, but she had left me to be dragged to Edinburgh without a
word. Women had never come much my way, but I had a boy's distrust of
the sex; and as I plodded along the highroad, with every now and then a
cuff from a trooper's fist to cheer me, I had hard thoughts of their
heartlessness.

We were a pitiful company as, in the bright autumn sun, we came in by
the village of Liberton, to where the reek of Edinburgh rose straight
into the windless weather. The women in the cart kept up a continual
lamenting, and Muckle John, who walked between two dragoons with his
hands tied to the saddle of each, so that he looked like a crucified
malefactor, polluted the air with hideous profanities. He cursed
everything in nature and beyond it, and no amount of clouts on the head
would stem the torrent. Sometimes he would fall to howling like a wolf,
and folk ran to their cottage doors to see the portent. Groups of
children followed us from every wayside clachan, so that we gave great
entertainment to the dwellers in Lothian that day. The thing infuriated
the dragoons, for it made them a laughing-stock, and the sins of Gib
were visited upon the more silent prisoners. We were hurried along at a
cruel pace, so that I had often to run to avoid the dragging at my
wrists, and behind us bumped the cart full of wailful women. I was sick
from fatigue and lack of food, and the South Port of Edinburgh was a
welcome sight to me. Welcome, and yet shameful, for I feared at any
moment to see the face of a companion in the jeering crowd that line
d
the causeway. I thought miserably of my pleasant lodgings in the Bow,
where my landlady, Mistress Macvittie, would be looking at the boxes
the Lanark carrier had brought, and be wondering what had become of
their master. I saw no light for myself in the business. My father's
ill-repute with the Government would tell heavily in my disfavour, and
it was beyond doubt that I had assaulted a dragoon. There was nothing
before me but the plantations or a long spell in some noisome prison.

The women were sent to the House of Correction to be whipped and
dismissed, for there was little against them but foolishness; all
except one, a virago called Isobel Bone, who was herded with the men.
The Canongate Tolbooth was our portion, the darkest and foulest of the
city prisons; and presently I found myself forced through a gateway and
up a narrow staircase, into a little chamber in which a score of beings
were already penned. A small unglazed window with iron bars high up on
one wall gave us such light and air as was going, but the place reeked
with human breathing, and smelled as rank as a kennel. I have a
delicate nose, and I could not but believe on my entrance that an hour
of such a hole would be the death of me. Soon the darkness came, and we
were given a tallow dip in a horn lantern hung on a nail to light us to
food. Such food I had never dreamed of. There was a big iron basin of
some kind of broth, made, as I judged, from offal, from which we drank
in pannikins; and with it were hunks of mildewed rye-bread. One
mouthful sickened me, and I preferred to fast. The behaviour of the
other prisoners was most seemly, but not so that of my company. They
scrambled for the stuff like pigs round a trough, and the woman Isobel
threatened with her nails any one who would prevent her. I was black
ashamed to enter prison with such a crew, and withdrew myself as far
distant as the chamber allowed me.

I had no better task than to look round me at those who had tenanted
the place before our coming. There were three women, decent-looki
ng
bodies, who talked low in whispers and knitted. The men were mostly
countryfolk, culled, as I could tell by their speech, from the west
country, whose only fault, no doubt, was that they had attended some
field-preaching. One old man, a minister by his dress, sat apart on a
stone bench, and with closed eyes communed with himself. I ventured to
address him, for in that horrid place he had a welcome air of sobriety
and sense.

He asked me for my story, and when he heard it looked curiously at
Muckle John, who was now reciting gibberish in a corner.

"So that is the man Gib," he said musingly. "I have heard tell of him,
for he was a thorn in the flesh of blessed Mr. Cargill. Often have I
heard him repeat how he went to Gib in the moors to reason with him in
the Lord's name, and got nothing but a mouthful of devilish
blasphemies. He is without doubt a child of Belial, as much as any
proud persecutor. Woe is the Kirk, when her foes shall be of her own
household, for it is with the words of the Gospel that he seeks to
overthrow the Gospel work. And how is it with you, my son? Do you seek
to add your testimony to the sweet savour which now ascends from moors,
mosses, peat-bogs, closes, kennels, prisons, dungeons, ay, and
scaffolds in this distressed land of Scotland? You have not told me
your name."

When he heard it he asked for my father, whom he had known in old days
at Edinburgh College. Then he inquired into my religious condition with
so much fatherly consideration that I could take no offence, but told
him honestly that I was little of a partisan, finding it hard enough to
keep my own feet from temptation without judging others. "I am weary,"
I said, "of all covenants and resolutions and excommunications and the
constraining of men's conscience either by Government or sectaries.
Some day, and I pray that it may be soon, both sides will be dead of
their wounds, and there will arise in Scotland men who will preach
peace and tolerance, and heal the grievously irritated sores of this
land."

He sighed as he heard 
me. "I fear you are still far from grace, lad,"
he said. "You are shaping for a Laodicean, of whom there are many in
these latter times. I do not know. It may be that God wills that the
Laodiceans have their day, for the fires of our noble covenant have
flamed too smokily. Yet those fires die not, and sometime they will
kindle up, purified and strengthened, and will burn the trash and
stubble and warm God's feckless people."

He was so old and gentle that I had no heart for disputation, and could
only beseech his blessing. This he gave me and turned once more to his
devotions. I was very weary, my head was splitting with the foul air of
the place, and I would fain have got me to sleep. Some dirty straw had
been laid round the walls of the room for the prisoners to lie on, and
I found a neuk close by the minister's side.

But sleep was impossible, for Muckle John got another fit of cursing He
stood up by the door with his eyes blazing like a wild-cat's, and
delivered what he called his "testimony." His voice had been used to
shout orders on shipboard, and not one of us could stop his ears
against it. Never have I heard such a medley of profane nonsense. He
cursed the man Charles Stuart, and every councillor by name; he cursed
the Persecutors, from his Highness of York down to one Welch of
Borrowstoneness, who had been the means of his first imprisonment; he
cursed the indulged and tolerated ministers; and he cursed every man of
the hill-folk whose name he could remember. He testified against all
dues and cesses, against all customs and excises, taxes and burdens;
against beer and ale and wines and tobacco; against mumming and
peep-shows and dancing, and every sort of play; against Christmas and
Easter and Pentecost and Hogmanay. Then most nobly did he embark on
theology. He made short work of hell and shorter work of heaven. He
raved against idolaters of the Kirk and of the Bible, and against all
preachers who, by his way of it, had perverted the Word. As he went on,
I began to fancy that Muckle John's true place 
was with the Mussulmans,
for he left not a stick of Christianity behind him.

Such blasphemy on the open hill-side had been shocking enough, but in
that narrow room it was too horrid to be borne. The minister stuck his
fingers in his ears, and, advancing to the maniac, bade him be silent
before God should blast him. But what could his thin old voice do
against Gib's bellowing? The mariner went on undisturbed, and gave the
old man a blow with his foot which sent him staggering to the floor.

The thing had become too much for my temper. I cried on the other men
to help me, but none stirred, for Gib seemed to cast an unholy spell on
ordinary folk. But my anger and discomfort banished all fear, and I
rushed at the prophet in a whirlwind. He had no eyes for my coming till
my head took him fairly in the middle, and drove the breath out of his
chest. That quieted his noise, and he turned on me with something like
wholesome human wrath in his face.

Now, I was no match for this great being with my ungrown strength, but
the lesson of my encounter with the dragoon was burned on my mind, and
I was determined to keep out of grips with him. I was light on my feet,
and in our country bouts had often worsted a heavier antagonist by my
quickness in movement. So when Muckle John leaped to grab me, I darted
under his arm, and he staggered half-way across the room. The women
scuttled into a corner, all but the besom Isobel, who made clutches at
my coat.

Crying "The sword of the Lord and of Gideon," Gib made a great lunge at
me with his fist. But the sword of Gideon missed its aim, and skinned
its knuckles on the stone wall. I saw now to my great comfort that the
man was beside himself with fury, and was swinging his arms wildly like
a flail. Three or four times I avoided his rushes, noting with
satisfaction that one of the countrymen had got hold of the shrieking
Isobel. Then my chance came, for as he lunged I struck from the side
with all my force on his jaw. I am left-handed, and the blow was
unlocked for. He staggered back a st
ep, and I deftly tripped him up, so
that he fell with a crash on the hard floor.

In a second I was on the top of him, shouting to the others to lend me
a hand. This they did at last, and so mazed was he with the fall, being
a mighty heavy man, that he scarcely resisted. "If you want a quiet
night," I cried, "we must silence this mountebank." With three leathern
belts, one my own and two borrowed, we made fast his feet and arms, I
stuffed a kerchief into his mouth, and bound his jaws with another, but
not so tight as to hinder his breathing. Then we rolled him into a
corner where he lay peacefully making the sound of a milch cow chewing
her cud. I returned to my quarters by the minister's side, and
presently from utter weariness fell into an uneasy sleep.

 * * * * *

I woke in the morning greatly refreshed for all the closeness of the
air, and, the memory of the night's events returning, was much
concerned as to the future. I could not be fighting with Muckle John
all the time, and I made no doubt that once his limbs were freed he
would try to kill me. The others were still asleep while I tiptoed over
to his corner. At first sight I got a fearsome shock, for I thought he
was dead of suffocation. He had worked the gag out of his mouth, and
lay as still as a corpse. But soon I saw that he was sleeping quietly,
and in his slumbers the madness had died out of his face. He looked
like any other sailorman, a trifle ill-favoured of countenance, and
dirty beyond the ordinary of sea-folk.

When the gaoler came with food, we all wakened up, and Gib asked very
peaceably to be released. The gaoler laughed at his predicament, and
inquired the tale of it; and when he heard the truth, called for a vote
as to what he should do. I was satisfied, from the look of Muckle John,
that his dangerous fit was over, so I gave my voice for release. Gib
shook himself like a great dog, and fell to his breakfast without a
word. I found the thin brose provided more palatable than the soup of
the evening before, and managed to consume a pannik
in of it. As I
finished, I perceived that Gib had squatted by my side. There was
clearly some change in the man, for he gave the woman Isobel some very
ill words when she started ranting.

Up in the little square of window one could see a patch of clear sky,
with white clouds crossing it, and a gust of the clean air of morning
was blown into our cell. Gib sat looking at it with his eyes
abstracted, so that I feared a renewal of his daftness.

"Can ye whistle 'Jenny Nettles,' sir?" he asked me civilly.

It was surely a queer request in that place and from such a fellow. But
I complied, and to the best of my skill rendered the air.

He listened greedily. "Ay, you've got it," he said, humming it after
me. "I aye love the way of it. Yon's the tune I used to whistle mysel'
on shipboard when the weather was clear."

He had the seaman's trick of thinking of the weather first thing in the
morning, and this little thing wrought a change in my view of him. His
madness was seemingly like that of an epileptic, and when it passed he
was a simple creature with a longing for familiar things.

"The wind's to the east," he said. "I could wish I were beating down
the Forth in the _Loupin' Jean._ She was a trim bit boat for him that
could handle her."

"Man," I said, "what made you leave a clean job for the ravings of
yesterday?"

"I'm in the Lord's hands," he said humbly. "I'm but a penny whistle for
His breath to blow on." This he said with such solemnity that the
meaning of a fanatic was suddenly revealed to me. One or two distorted
notions, a wild imagination, and fierce passions, and there you have
the ingredients ready. But moments of sense must come, when the better
nature of the man revives. I had a thought that the clout he got on the
stone floor had done much to clear his wits.

"What will they do wi' me, think ye?" he asked. "This is the second
time I've fallen into the hands o' the Amalekites, and it's no likely
they'll let me off sae lightly."

"What will they do with us all?" said I. "The Plantations maybe, or the
Bas
s! It's a bonny creel you've landed me in, for I'm as innocent as a
newborn babe."

The notion of the Plantations seemed to comfort him. "I've been there
afore, once in the brig _John Rolfe_ o' Greenock, and once in the
_Luckpenny _o' Leith. It's a het land but a bonny, and full o' all
manner o' fruits. You can see tobacco growin' like aits, and mair big
trees in one plantin' than in all the shire o' Lothian. Besides--"

But I got no more of Muckle John's travels, for the door opened on that
instant, and the gaoler appeared. He looked at our heads, then singled
me out, and cried on me to follow. "Come on, you," he said. "Ye're
wantit in the captain's room."

I followed in bewilderment; for I knew something of the law's delays,
and I could not believe that my hour of trial had come already. The man
took me down the turret stairs and through a long passage to a door
where stood two halberdiers. Through this he thrust me, and I found
myself in a handsome panelled apartment with the city arms carved above
the chimney. A window stood open, and I breathed the sweet, fresh air
with delight. But I caught a reflection of myself in the polished steel
of the fireplace, and my spirits fell, for a more woebegone ruffian my
eyes had never seen. I was as dirty as a collier, my coat was half off
my back from my handling on the moor, and there were long rents at the
knees of my breeches.

Another door opened, and two persons entered. One was a dapper little
man with a great wig, very handsomely dressed in a plum- silken
coat, with a snowy cravat at his neck. At the sight of the other my
face crimsoned, for it was the girl who had sung Montrose's song in the
rain.

The little gentleman looked at me severely, and then turned to his
companion. "Is this the fellow, Elspeth?" he inquired. "He looks a
sorry rascal."

The minx pretended to examine me carefully. Her colour was high with
the fresh morning, and she kept tapping her boot with her whip handle.

"Why, yes, Uncle Gregory," she said, "It is the very man, though none
the better 
for your night's attentions."

"And you say he had no part in Gib's company, but interfered on your
behalf when the madman threatened you?"

"Such was his impertinence," she said, "as if I were not a match for a
dozen crazy hill-folk. But doubtless the lad meant well."

"It is also recorded against him that he assaulted one of His Majesty's
servants, to wit, the trooper John Donald, and offered to hinder him in
the prosecution of his duty."

"La, uncle!" cried the girl, "who is to distinguish friend from foe in
a mellay? Have you never seen a dog in a fight bite the hand of one who
would succour him?"

"Maybe, maybe," said the gentleman. "Your illustrations, Elspeth, would
do credit to His Majesty's advocate. Your plea is that this young man,
whose name I do not know and do not seek to hear, should be freed or
justice will miscarry? God knows the law has enough to do without
clogging its wheels with innocence."

The girl nodded. Her wicked, laughing eyes roamed about the apartment
with little regard for my flushed face.

"Then the Crown assoilzies the panel and deserts the diet," said the
little gentleman. "Speak, sir, and thank His Majesty for his clemency
and this lady for her intercession."

I had no words, for if I had been sore at my imprisonment, I was black
angry at this manner of release. I did not reflect that Miss Elspeth
Blair must have risen early and ridden far to be in the Canongate at
this hour. 'Twas justice only that moved her, I thought, and no
gratitude or kindness. To her I was something so lowly that she need
not take the pains to be civil, but must speak of me in my presence as
if it were a question of a stray hound. My first impulse was to refuse
to stir, but happily my good sense returned in time and preserved me
from playing the fool.

"I thank you, sir," I said gruffly--"and the lady. Do I understand that
I am free to go?"

"Through the door, down the left stairway, and you will be in the
street," said the gentleman.

I made some sort of bow and moved to the door.

"Farewell, Mr. Whiggam
ore," the girl cried, "Keep a cheerful
countenance, or they'll think you a Sweet-Singer. Your breeches will
mend, man."

And with her laughter most unpleasantly in my ears I made my way into
the Canongate, and so to my lodgings at Mrs. Macvittie's.

 * * * * *

Three weeks later I heard that Muckle John was destined for the
Plantations in a ship of Mr. Barclay of Urie's, which traded to New
Jersey. I had a fancy to see him before he went, and after much trouble
I was suffered to visit him. His gaoler told me he had been mighty wild
during his examination before the Council, and had had frequent bouts
of madness since, but for the moment he was peaceable. I found him in a
little cell by himself, outside the common room of the gaol. He was
sitting in an attitude of great dejection, and when I entered could
scarcely recall me to his memory. I remember thinking that, what with
his high cheek-bones, and lank black hair, and brooding eyes, and great
muscular frame, Scotland could scarcely have furnished a wilder figure
for the admiration of the Carolinas, or wherever he went to. I did not
envy his future master.

But with me he was very friendly and quiet. His ailment was
home-sickness; for though he had been a great voyager, it seemed he was
loath to quit our bleak countryside for ever. "I used aye to think o'
the first sight o' Inchkeith and the Lomond hills, and the smell o'
herrings at the pier o' Leith. What says the Word? '_Weep not for the
dead, neither bemoan him; but weep sore for him that goeth away, for he
shall return no more, nor see his native country_.'"

I asked him if I could do him any service.

"There's a woman at Cramond," he began timidly. "She might like to ken
what had become o' me. Would ye carry a message?"

I did better, for at Gib's dictation I composed for her a letter, since
he could not write. I wrote it on some blank pages from my pocket which
I used for College notes. It was surely the queerest love-letter ever
indited, for the most part of it was theology, and the rest was
instructions 
for the disposing of his scanty plenishing. I have
forgotten now what I wrote, but I remember that the woman's name was
Alison Steel.

CHAPTER IV.

OF A STAIRHEAD AND A SEA-CAPTAIN.

With the escapade that landed me in the Tolbooth there came an end to
the nightmare years of my first youth. A week later I got word that my
father was dead of an ague in the Low Countries, and I had to be off
post-haste to Auchencairn to see to the ordering of our little estate.
We were destined to be bitter poor, what with dues and regalities
incident on the passing of the ownership, and I thought it best to
leave my mother to farm it, with the help of Robin Gilfillan the
grieve, and seek employment which would bring me an honest penny. Her
one brother, Andrew Sempill, from whom I was named, was a merchant in
Glasgow, the owner of three ships that traded to the Western Seas, and
by repute a man of a shrewd and venturesome temper. He was single, too,
and I might reasonably look to be his heir; so when a letter came from
him offering me a hand in his business, my mother was instant for my
going. I was little loath myself, for I saw nothing now to draw me to
the profession of the law, which had been my first notion. "Hame's
hame," runs the proverb, "as the devil said when he found himself in
the Court of Session," and I had lost any desire for that sinister
company. Besides, I liked the notion of having to do with ships and far
lands; for I was at the age when youth burns fiercely in a lad, and his
fancy is as riotous as a poet's.

Yet the events I have just related had worked a change in my life. They
had driven the unthinking child out of me and forced me to reflect on
my future. Two things rankled in my soul--a wench's mocking laughter
and the treatment I had got from the dragoon. It was not that I was in
love with the black-haired girl; indeed, I think I hated her; but I
could not get her face out of my head or her voice out of my ears. She
had mocked me, treated me as if I was no more than a foolish servant,
and my vanity was raw
. I longed to beat down her pride, to make her
creep humbly to me, Andrew Garvald, as her only deliverer; and how that
should be compassed was the subject of many hot fantasies in my brain.
The dragoon, too, had tossed me about like a silly sheep, and my
manhood cried out at the recollection. What sort of man was I if any
lubberly soldier could venture on such liberties?

I went into the business with the monstrous solemnity of youth, and
took stock of my equipment as if I were casting up an account. Many a
time in those days I studied my appearance in the glass like a foolish
maid. I was not well featured, having a freckled, square face, a
biggish head, a blunt nose, grey, colourless eyes, and a sandy thatch
of hair, I had great square shoulders, but my arms were too short for
my stature, and--from an accident in my nursing days--of indifferent
strength. All this stood on the debit side of my account. On the credit
side I set down that I had unshaken good health and an uncommon power
of endurance, especially in the legs. There was no runner in the Upper
Ward of Lanark who was my match, and I had travelled the hills so
constantly in all weathers that I had acquired a gipsy lore in the
matter of beasts and birds and wild things, I had long, clear, unerring
eyesight, which had often stood me in good stead in the time of my
father's troubles. Of moral qualities, Heaven forgive me, I fear I
thought less; but I believed, though I had been little proved, that I
was as courageous as the common run of men.

All this looks babyish in the writing, but there was a method in this
self-examination. I believed that I was fated to engage in strange
ventures, and I wanted to equip myself for the future. The pressing
business was that of self-defence, and I turned first to a gentleman's
proper weapon, the sword. Here, alas! I was doomed to a bitter
disappointment. My father had given me a lesson now and then, but never
enough to test me, and when I came into the hands of a Glasgow master
my unfitness was soon manifest. Neither wi
th broadsword nor small sword
could I acquire any skill. My short arm lacked reach and vigour, and
there seemed to be some stiffness in wrist and elbow and shoulder which
compelled me to yield to smaller men. Here was a pretty business, for
though gentleman born I was as loutish with a gentleman's weapon as any
country hind.

This discovery gave me some melancholy weeks, but I plucked up heart
and set to reasoning. If my hand were to guard my head it must find
some other way of it. My thoughts turned to powder and shot, to the
musket and the pistol. Here was a weapon which needed only a stout
nerve, a good eye, and a steady hand; one of these I possessed to the
full, and the others were not beyond my attainment. There lived an
armourer in the Gallowgate, one Weir, with whom I began to spend my
leisure. There was an alley by the Molendinar Burn, close to the
archery butts, where he would let me practise at a mark with guns from
his store. Soon to my delight I found that here was a weapon with which
I need fear few rivals. I had a natural genius for the thing, as some
men have for sword-play, and Weir was a zealous teacher, for he loved
his flint-locks.

"See, Andrew," he would cry, "this is the true leveller of mankind. It
will make the man his master's equal, for though your gentleman may
cock on a horse and wave his Andrew Ferrara, this will bring him off
it. Brains, my lad, will tell in coming days, for it takes a head to
shoot well, though any flesher may swing a sword."

The better marksman I grew the less I liked the common make of guns,
and I cast about to work an improvement. I was especially fond of the
short gun or pistol, not the bell-mouthed thing which shot a handful
of slugs, and was as little precise in its aim as a hailstorm, but the
light foreign pistol which, shot as true as a musket. Weir had learned
his trade in Italy, and was a neat craftsman, so I employed him to make
me a pistol after my own pattern. The butt was of light, tough wood,
and brass-bound, for I did not care to waste money on orn
ament. The
barrel was shorter than the usual, and of the best Spanish metal, and
the pan and the lock were set after my own device. Nor was that all,
for I became an epicure in the matter of bullets, and made my own with
the care of a goldsmith. I would weigh out the powder charges as nicely
as an apothecary weighs his drugs, for I had discovered that with the
pistol the weight of bullet and charge meant much for good
marksmanship. From Weir I got the notion of putting up ball and powder
in cartouches, and I devised a method of priming much quicker and surer
than the ordinary. In one way and another I believe I acquired more
skill in the business than anybody then living in Scotland. I cherished
my toy like a lover; I christened it "Elspeth "; it lay by my bed at
night, and lived by day in a box of sweet-scented foreign wood given me
by one of my uncle's skippers. I doubt I thought more of it than of my
duty to my Maker.

All the time I was very busy at Uncle Andrew's counting-house in the
Candleriggs, and down by the river-side among the sailors. It was the
day when Glasgow was rising from a cluster of streets round the High
Kirk and College to be the chief merchants' resort in Scotland.
Standing near the Western Seas, she turned her eyes naturally to the
Americas, and a great trade was beginning in tobacco and raw silk from
Virginia, rich woods and dye stuffs from the Main, and rice and fruits
from the Summer Islands. The river was too shallow for ships of heavy
burthen, so it was the custom to unload in the neighbourhood of
Greenock and bring the goods upstream in barges to the quay at the
Broomielaw. There my uncle, in company with other merchants, had his
warehouse, but his counting-house was up in the town, near by the
College, and I spent my time equally between the two places. I became
furiously interested in the work, for it has ever been my happy fortune
to be intent on whatever I might be doing at the moment. I think I
served my uncle well, for I had much of the merchant's aptitude, and
the eye to disc
ern far-away profits. He liked my boldness, for I was
impatient of the rule-of-thumb ways of some of our fellow-traders. "We
are dealing with new lands," I would say, "and there is need of new
plans. It pays to think in trading as much as in statecraft," There
were plenty that looked askance at us, and cursed us as troublers of
the peace, and there were some who prophesied speedy ruin. But we
discomforted our neighbours by prospering mightily, so that there was
talk of Uncle Andrew for the Provost's chair at the next vacancy.

They were happy years, the four I spent in Glasgow, for I was young and
ardent, and had not yet suffered the grave miscarriage of hope which is
our human lot. My uncle was a busy merchant, but he was also something
of a scholar, and was never happier than when disputing some learned
point with a college professor over a bowl of punch. He was a great
fisherman, too, and many a salmon I have seen him kill between the town
and Rutherglen in the autumn afternoons. He treated me like a son, and
by his aid I completed my education by much reading of books and a
frequent attendance at college lectures. Such leisure as I had I spent
by the river-side talking with the ship captains and getting news of
far lands. In this way I learned something of the handling of a ship,
and especially how to sail a sloop alone in rough weather, I have
ventured, myself the only crew, far down the river to the beginning of
the sealocks, and more than once escaped drowning by a miracle. Of a
Saturday I would sometimes ride out to Auchencairn to see my mother and
assist with my advice the work of Robin Gilfillan. Once I remember I
rode to Carnwath, and looked again on the bleak house where the girl
Elspeth had sung to me in the rain. I found it locked and deserted, and
heard from a countrywoman that the folk had gone. "And a guid
riddance," said the woman. "The Blairs was aye a cauld and oppressive
race, and they were black Prelatists forbye. But I whiles miss yon
hellicat lassie. She had a cheery word for a'body, and s
he keepit the
place frae languor."

But I cannot linger over the tale of those peaceful years when I have
so much that is strange and stirring to set down. Presently came the
Revolution, when King James fled overseas, and the Dutch King William
reigned in his stead. The event was a godsend to our trade, for with
Scotland in a bicker with Covenants and dragoonings, and new taxes
threatened with each new Parliament, a merchant's credit was apt to be
a brittle thing. The change brought a measure of security, and as we
prospered I soon began to see that something must be done in our
Virginian trade. Years before, my uncle had sent out a man, Lambie by
name, who watched his interests in that country. But we had to face
such fierce rivalry from the Bristol merchants that I had small
confidence in Mr. Lambie, who from his letters was a sleepy soul. I
broached the matter to my uncle, and offered to go myself and put
things in order. At first he was unwilling to listen. I think he was
sorry to part with me, for we had become close friends, and there was
also the difficulty of my mother, to whom I was the natural protector.
But his opposition died down when I won my mother to my side, and when
I promised that I would duly return. I pointed out that Glasgow and
Virginia were not so far apart. Planters from the colony would dwell
with us for a season, and their sons often come to Glasgow for their
schooling. You could see the proud fellows walking the streets in brave
clothes, and marching into the kirk on Sabbath with a couple of
servants carrying cushions and Bibles. In the better class of tavern
one could always meet with a Virginian or two compounding their curious
drinks, and swearing their outlandish oaths. Most of them had gone
afield from Scotland, and it was a fine incentive to us young men to
see how mightily they had prospered. My uncle yielded, and it was
arranged that I should sail with the first convoy of the New Year. From
the moment of the decision I walked the earth in a delirium of
expectation. That Februar
y, I remember, was blue and mild, with soft
airs blowing up the river. Down by the Broomielaw I found a new rapture
in the smell of tar and cordage, and the queer foreign scents in my
uncle's warehouse. Every skipper and greasy sailor became for me a
figure of romance. I scanned every outland face, wondering if I should
meet it again in the New World. A <DW64> in cotton drawers, shivering in
our northern dune, had more attraction for me than the fairest maid,
and I was eager to speak with all and every one who had crossed the
ocean. One bronzed mariner with silver earrings I entertained to three
stoups of usquebaugh, hoping for strange tales, but the little I had
from him before he grew drunk was that he had once voyaged to the
Canaries. You may imagine that I kept my fancies to myself, and was
outwardly only the sober merchant with a mind set on freights and
hogsheads. But whoever remembers his youth will know that such terms to
me were not the common parlance of trade. The very names of the
tobaccos <DW64>'s Head, Sweet-scented, Oronoke, Carolina Red, Gloucester
Glory, Golden Rod sang in my head like a tune, that told of green
forests and magic islands.

But an incident befell ere I left which was to have unforeseen effects
on my future. One afternoon I was in the shooting alley I have spoken
of, making trial of a new size of bullet I had moulded. The place was
just behind Parlane's tavern, and some gentlemen, who had been drinking
there, came out to cool their heads and see the sport. Most of them
were cock-lairds from the Lennox, and, after the Highland fashion, had
in their belts heavy pistols of the old kind which folk called "dags."
They were cumbrous, ill-made things, gaudily ornamented with silver and
Damascus work, fit ornaments for a savage Highland chief, but little
good for serious business, unless a man were only a pace or two from
his opponent. One of them, who had drunk less than the others, came up
to me and very civilly proposed a match. I was nothing loath, so a
course was fixed, and a mutchkin
 of French _eau de vie_ named as the
prize. I borrowed an old hat from the landlord which had stuck in its
side a small red cockade. The thing was hung as a target in a leafless
cherry tree at twenty paces, and the cockade was to be the centre mark.
Each man was to fire three shots apiece.

Barshalloch--for so his companions called my opponent after his
lairdship--made a great to-do about the loading, and would not be
content till he had drawn the charge two--three times. The spin of a
coin gave him first shot, and he missed the mark and cut the bole of
the tree.

"See," I said, "I will put my ball within a finger's-breadth of his."
Sure enough, when they looked, the two bullets were all but in the same
hole.

His second shot took the hat low down on its right side, and clipped
away a bit of the brim. I saw by this time that the man could shoot,
though he had a poor weapon and understood little about it. So I told
the company that I would trim the hat by slicing a bit from the other
side. This I achieved, though by little, for my shot removed only half
as much cloth as its predecessor. But the performance amazed the
onlookers. "Ye've found a fair provost at the job, Barshalloch," one of
them hiccupped. "Better quit and pay for the mutchkin."

My antagonist took every care with his last shot, and, just missing the
cockade, hit the hat about the middle, cut the branch on which it
rested, and brought it fluttering to the ground a pace or two farther
on. It lay there, dimly seen through a low branch of the cherry tree,
with the cockade on the side nearest me. It was a difficult mark, but
the light was good and my hand steady. I walked forward and brought
back the hat with a hole drilled clean through the cockade.

At that there was a great laughter, and much jocosity from the
cock-lairds at their friend's expense. Barshalloch very handsomely
complimented me, and sent for the mutchkin. His words made me warm
towards him, and I told him that half the business was not my skill of
shooting but the weapon I carried.

He b
egged for a look at it, and examined it long and carefully.

"Will ye sell, friend?" he asked. "I'll give ye ten golden guineas and
the best filly that ever came out o' Strathendrick for that pistol."

But I told him that the offer of Strathendrick itself would not buy it.

"No?" said he. "Well, I won't say ye're wrong. A man should cherish his
weapon like his wife, for it carries his honour."

Presently, having drunk the wager, they went indoors again, all but a
tall fellow who had been a looker-on, but had not been of the Lennox
company. I had remarked him during the contest, a long, lean man with a
bright, humorous blue eye and a fiery red head. He was maybe ten years
older than me, and though he was finely dressed in town clothes, there
was about his whole appearance a smack of the sea. He came forward,
and, in a very Highland voice, asked my name.

"Why should I tell you?" I said, a little nettled.

"Just that I might carry it in my head. I have seen some pretty
shooting in my day, but none like yours, young one. What's your trade
that ye've learned the pistol game so cleverly?"

Now I was flushed with pride, and in no mood for a stranger's
patronage. So I told him roundly that it was none of his business, and
pushed by him to Parlane's back-door. But my brusqueness gave no
offence to this odd being. He only laughed and cried after me that, if
my manners were the equal of my marksmanship, I would be the best lad
he had seen since his home-coming.

I had dinner with my uncle in the Candleriggs, and sat with him late
afterwards casting up accounts, so it was not till nine o'clock that I
set out on my way to my lodgings. These were in the Saltmarket, close
on the river front, and to reach them I went by the short road through
the Friar's Vennel. It was an ill-reputed quarter of the town, and not
long before had been noted as a haunt of coiners; but I had gone
through it often, and met with no hindrance.

In the vennel stood a tall dark bit of masonry called Gilmour's
Lordship, which was pierced by long closes f
rom which twisting
stairways led to the upper landings. I was noting its gloomy aspect
under the dim February moon, when a man came towards me and turned into
one of the closes. He swung along with a free, careless gait that
marked him as no townsman, and ere he plunged into the darkness I had a
glimpse of fiery hair. It was the stranger who had accosted me in
Parlane's alley, and he was either drunk or in wild spirits, for he was
singing:--

 "We're a' dry wi' the drinkin' o't,
 We're a' dry wi' the drinkin' o't.
 The minister kissed the fiddler's wife,
 And he couldna preach for thinkin' o't."

The ribald chorus echoed from the close mouth.

Then I saw that he was followed by three others, bent, slinking
fellows, who slipped across the patches of moonlight, and eagerly
scanned the empty vennel. They could not see me, for I was in shadow,
and presently they too entered the close.

The thing looked ugly, and, while I had no love for the red-haired man,
I did not wish to see murder or robbery committed and stand idly by.
The match of the afternoon had given me a fine notion of my prowess,
though. Had I reflected, my pistol was in its case at home, and I had
no weapon but a hazel staff. Happily in youth the blood is quicker than
the brain, and without a thought I ran into the close and up the long
stairway.

The chorus was still being sung ahead of me, and then it suddenly
ceased. In dead silence and in pitchy darkness I struggled up the stone
steps, wondering what I should find at the next turning. The place was
black as night, the steps were uneven, and the stairs corkscrewed most
wonderfully. I wished with all my heart that I had not come, as I
groped upwards hugging the wall.

Then a cry came and a noise of hard breathing. At the same moment a
door opened somewhere above my head, and a faint glow came down the
stairs. Presently with a great rumble a heavy man came rolling past me,
butting with his head at the stair-side. He came to anchor on a landing
below me, and finding his feet plunged downwards as if the d
evil were
at his heels. He left behind him a short Highland knife, which I picked
up and put in my pocket.

On his heels came another with his hand clapped to his side, and he
moaned as he slithered past me. Something dripped from him on the stone
steps.

The light grew stronger, and as I rounded the last turning a third came
bounding down, stumbling from wall to wall like a drunk man. I saw his
face clearly, and if ever mortal eyes held baffled murder it was that
fellow's. There was a dark mark on his shoulder.

Above me as I blinked stood my red-haired friend on the top landing. He
had his sword drawn, and was whistling softly through his teeth, while
on the right hand was an open door and an old man holding a lamp.

"Ho!" he cried. "Here comes a fourth. God's help, it's my friend the
marksman!"

I did not like that naked bit of steel, but there was nothing for it
but to see the thing through. When he saw that I was unarmed he
returned his weapon to its sheath, and smiled broadly down on me.

"What brings my proud gentleman up these long stairs?" he asked.

"I saw you entering the close and three men following you. It looked
bad, so I came up to see fair play."

"Did ye so? And a very pretty intention, Mr. What's-your-name. But ye
needna have fashed yourself. Did ye see any of our friends on the
stairs?"

"I met a big man rolling down like a football," I said.

"Ay, that would be Angus. He's a clumsy stot, and never had much
sense."

"And I met another with his hand on his side," I said.

"That would be little James. He's a fine lad with a skean-dhu on a dark
night, but there was maybe too much light here for his trade."

"And I met a third who reeled like a drunk man," I said.

"Ay," said he meditatively, "that was Long Colin. He's the flower o'
the flock, and I had to pink him. At another time and in a better place
I would have liked a bout with him, for he has some notion of
sword-play."

"Who were the men?" I asked, in much confusion, for this laughing
warrior perplexed me.

"Who but just my cousins from Gl
engyle. There has long been a sort of
bicker between us, and they thought they had got a fine chance of
ending it."

"And who, in Heaven's name, are you," I said, "that treats murder so
lightly?"

"Me?" he repeated. "Well, I might give ye the answer you gave me this
very day when I speired the same question. But I am frank by nature,
and I see you wish me well. Come in bye, and we'll discuss the matter."

He led me into a room where a cheerful fire crackled, and got out from
a press a bottle and glasses. He produced tobacco from a brass box and
filled a long pipe.

"Now," said he, "we'll understand each other better. Ye see before you
a poor gentleman of fortune, whom poverty and a roving spirit have
driven to outland bits o' the earth to ply his lawful trade of
sea-captain. They call me by different names. I have passed for a Dutch
skipper, and a Maryland planter, and a French trader, and, in spite of
my colour, I have been a Spanish don in the Main. At Tortuga you will
hear one name, and another at Port o' Spain, and a third at Cartagena.
But, seeing we are in the city o' Glasgow in the kindly kingdom o'
Scotland, I'll be honest with you. My father called me Ninian Campbell,
and there's no better blood in Breadalbane."

What could I do after that but make him a present of the trivial facts
about myself and my doings? There was a look of friendly humour about
this dare-devil which captured my fancy. I saw in him the stuff of
which adventurers are made, and though I was a sober merchant, I was
also young. For days I had been dreaming of foreign parts and an
Odyssey of strange fortunes, and here on a Glasgow stairhead I had
found Ulysses himself.

"Is it not the pity," he cried, "that such talents as yours should rust
in a dark room in the Candleriggs? Believe me, Mr. Garvald, I have seen
some pretty shots, but I have never seen your better."

Then I told him that I was sailing within a month for Virginia, and he
suddenly grew solemn.

"It looks like Providence," he said, "that we two should come together.
I, too,
 will soon be back in the Western Seas, and belike we'll meet.
I'm something of a rover, and I never bide long in the same place, but
I whiles pay a visit to James Town, and they ken me well on the Eastern
Shore and the Accomac beaches."

He fell to giving me such advice as a traveller gives to a novice. It
was strange hearing for an honest merchant, for much of it was
concerned with divers ways of outwitting the law. By and by he was
determined to convoy me to my lodgings, for he pointed out that I was
unarmed; and I think, too, he had still hopes of another meeting with
Long Colin, his cousin.

"I leave Glasgow the morrow's morn," he said, "and it's no likely we'll
meet again in Scotland. Out in Virginia, no doubt, you'll soon be a
great man, and sit in Council, and hob-nob with the Governor. But a
midge can help an elephant, and I would gladly help you, for you had
the goodwill to help me. If ye need aid you will go to Mercer's Tavern
at James Town down on the water front, and you will ask news of Ninian
Campbell. The man will say that he never heard tell of the name, and
then you will speak these words to him. You will say 'The lymphads are
on the loch, and the horn of Diarmaid has sounded.' Keep them well in
mind, for some way or other they will bring you and me together."

Without another word he was off, and as I committed the gibberish to
memory I could hear his song going up the Saltmarket:--

 "The minister kissed the fiddler's wife,
 And he couldna preach for thinkin' o't."

CHAPTER V.

MY FIRST COMING TO VIRGINIA.

There are few moments in life to compare with a traveller's first sight
of a new land which is destined to be for short or long his home. When,
after a fair and speedy voyage, we passed Point Comfort, and had rid
ourselves of the revenue men, and the tides bore us up the estuary of a
noble river, I stood on deck and drank in the heady foreign scents with
a boyish ecstasy. Presently we had opened the capital city, which
seemed to me no more than a village set amid gardens, and Mr. Lambie
had
 come aboard and greeted me. He conveyed me to the best ordinary in
the town which stood over against the Court-house. Late in the
afternoon, just before the dark fell, I walked out to drink my fill of
the place.

You are to remember that I was a country lad who had never set foot
forth of Scotland. I was very young, and hot on the quest of new sights
and doings. As I walked down the unpaven street and through the narrow
tobacco-grown lanes, the strange smell of it all intoxicated me like
wine.

There was a great red sunset burning over the blue river and kindling
the far forests till they glowed like jewels. The frogs were croaking
among the reeds, and the wild duck squattered in the dusk. I passed an
Indian, the first I had seen, with cock's feathers on his head, and a
curiously tattooed chest, moving as light as a sleep-walker. One or two
townsfolk took the air, smoking their long pipes, and down by the water
a <DW64> girl was singing a wild melody. The whole place was like a mad,
sweet-scented dream to one just come from the unfeatured ocean, and
with a memory only of grim Scots cities and dour Scots hills. I felt as
if I had come into a large and generous land, and I thanked God that I
was but twenty-three.

But as I was mooning along there came a sudden interruption on
my dreams. I was beyond the houses, in a path which ran among
tobacco-sheds and little gardens, with the river lapping a
stone's-throw off. Down a side alley I caught a glimpse of a figure
that seemed familiar.

'Twas that of a tall, hulking man, moving quickly among the tobacco
plants, with something stealthy in his air. The broad, bowed shoulders
and the lean head brought back to me the rainy moorlands about the
Cauldstaneslap and the mad fellow whose prison I had shared. Muckle
John had gone to the Plantations, and 'twas Muckle John or the devil
that was moving there in the half light.

I cried on him, and ran down the side alley.

But it seemed that he did not want company, for he broke into a run.

Now in those days I rejoiced in the str
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Suzanne Shell, Sjaani and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE HOUSE ON THE BORDERLAND

William Hope Hodgson

_From the Manuscript discovered in 1877 by Messrs. Tonnison and
Berreggnog in the Ruins that lie to the South of the Village of
Kraighten, in the West of Ireland. Set out here, with Notes_.

TO MY FATHER
_(Whose feet tread the lost aeons)_

Open the door,
 And listen!
Only the wind's muffled roar,
 And the glisten
Of tears 'round the moon.
 And, in fancy, the tread
Of vanishing shoon--
 Out in the night with the Dead.

"Hush! And hark
 To the sorrowful cry
Of the wind in the dark.
 Hush and hark, without murmur or sigh,
 To shoon that tread the lost aeons:
 To the sound that bids you to die.
Hush and hark! Hush and Hark!"
 _Shoon of the Dead_

AUTHOR'S INTRODUCTION TO THE MANUSCRIPT

Many are the hours in which I have pondered upon the story that is set
forth in the following pages. I trust that my instincts are not awry
when they prompt me to leave the account, in simplicity, as it was
handed to me.

And the MS. itself--You must picture me, when first it was given into my
care, turning it over, curiously, and making a swift, jerky examination.
A small book it is; but thick, and all, save the last few pages, filled
with a quaint but legible handwriting, and writ very close. I have the
queer, faint, pit-water smell of it in my nostrils now as I write, and
my fingers have subconscious memories of the soft, "cloggy" feel of the
long-damp pages.

I read, and, in reading, lifted the Curtains of the Impossible that
blind the mind, and looked out into the unknown. Amid stiff, abrupt
sentences I wandered; and, presently, I had no fault to charge against
their abrupt tellings; for, better far than my own ambitious phrasing,
is this mutilated story capable of bringing home all that the old
Recluse, of the vanished house, had striven to tell.

Of the simple, stiffly given account of weird and extraordinary matters,
I will say little. It lies before you. The inner story must be uncovered,
personally, by each 
reader, according to ability and desire. And even
should any fail to see, as now I see, the shadowed picture and conception
of that to which one may well give the accepted titles of Heaven and Hell;
yet can I promise certain thrills, merely taking the story as a story.

WILLIAM HOPE HODGSON December 17, 1907

_I_

THE FINDING OF THE MANUSCRIPT

Right away in the west of Ireland lies a tiny hamlet called Kraighten.
It is situated, alone, at the base of a low hill. Far around there
spreads a waste of bleak and totally inhospitable country; where, here
and there at great intervals, one may come upon the ruins of some long
desolate cottage--unthatched and stark. The whole land is bare and
unpeopled, the very earth scarcely covering the rock that lies beneath
it, and with which the country abounds, in places rising out of the soil
in wave-shaped ridges.

Yet, in spite of its desolation, my friend Tonnison and I had elected to
spend our vacation there. He had stumbled on the place by mere chance
the year previously, during the course of a long walking tour, and
discovered the possibilities for the angler in a small and unnamed river
that runs past the outskirts of the little village.

I have said that the river is without name; I may add that no map that I
have hitherto consulted has shown either village or stream. They seem
to have entirely escaped observation: indeed, they might never exist for
all that the average guide tells one. Possibly this can be partly
accounted for by the fact that the nearest railway station (Ardrahan) is
some forty miles distant.

It was early one warm evening when my friend and I arrived in Kraighten.
We had reached Ardrahan the previous night, sleeping there in rooms
hired at the village post office, and leaving in good time on the
following morning, clinging insecurely to one of the typical
jaunting cars.

It had taken us all day to accomplish our journey over some of the
roughest tracks imaginable, with the result that we were thoroughly
tired and somewhat bad tempered. However, the ten
t had to be erected and
our goods stowed away before we could think of food or rest. And so we
set to work, with the aid of our driver, and soon had the tent up upon a
small patch of ground just outside the little village, and quite near to
the river.

Then, having stored all our belongings, we dismissed the driver, as he
had to make his way back as speedily as possible, and told him to come
across to us at the end of a fortnight. We had brought sufficient
provisions to last us for that space of time, and water we could get
from the stream. Fuel we did not need, as we had included a small
oil-stove among our outfit, and the weather was fine and warm.

It was Tonnison's idea to camp out instead of getting lodgings in one of
the cottages. As he put it, there was no joke in sleeping in a room with
a numerous family of healthy Irish in one corner and the pigsty in the
other, while overhead a ragged colony of roosting fowls distributed
their blessings impartially, and the whole place so full of peat smoke
that it made a fellow sneeze his head off just to put it inside
the doorway.

Tonnison had got the stove lit now and was busy cutting slices of bacon
into the frying pan; so I took the kettle and walked down to the river
for water. On the way, I had to pass close to a little group of the
village people, who eyed me curiously, but not in any unfriendly manner,
though none of them ventured a word.

As I returned with my kettle filled, I went up to them and, after a
friendly nod, to which they replied in like manner, I asked them
casually about the fishing; but, instead of answering, they just shook
their heads silently, and stared at me. I repeated the question,
addressing more particularly a great, gaunt fellow at my elbow; yet
again I received no answer. Then the man turned to a comrade and said
something rapidly in a language that I did not understand; and, at once,
the whole crowd of them fell to jabbering in what, after a few moments,
I guessed to be pure Irish. At the same time they cast many glances in
my direct
ion. For a minute, perhaps, they spoke among themselves thus;
then the man I had addressed faced 'round at me and said something. By
the expression of his face I guessed that he, in turn, was questioning
me; but now I had to shake my head, and indicate that I did not
comprehend what it was they wanted to know; and so we stood looking at
one another, until I heard Tonnison calling to me to hurry up with the
kettle. Then, with a smile and a nod, I left them, and all in the little
crowd smiled and nodded in return, though their faces still betrayed
their puzzlement.

It was evident, I reflected as I went toward the tent, that the
inhabitants of these few huts in the wilderness did not know a word of
English; and when I told Tonnison, he remarked that he was aware of the
fact, and, more, that it was not at all uncommon in that part of the
country, where the people often lived and died in their isolated hamlets
without ever coming in contact with the outside world.

"I wish we had got the driver to interpret for us before he left," I
remarked, as we sat down to our meal. "It seems so strange for the
people of this place not even to know what we've come for."

Tonnison grunted an assent, and thereafter was silent for a while.

Later, having satisfied our appetites somewhat, we began to talk, laying
our plans for the morrow; then, after a smoke, we closed the flap of the
tent, and prepared to turn in.

"I suppose there's no chance of those fellows outside taking anything?"
I asked, as we rolled ourselves in our blankets.

Tonnison said that he did not think so, at least while we were about;
and, as he went on to explain, we could lock up everything, except the
tent, in the big chest that we had brought to hold our provisions. I
agreed to this, and soon we were both asleep.

Next morning, early, we rose and went for a swim in the river; after
which we dressed and had breakfast. Then we roused out our fishing
tackle and overhauled it, by which time, our breakfasts having settled
somewhat, we made all secure within the ten
t and strode off in the
direction my friend had explored on his previous visit.

During the day we fished happily, working steadily upstream, and by
evening we had one of the prettiest creels of fish that I had seen for a
long while. Returning to the village, we made a good feed off our day's
spoil, after which, having selected a few of the finer fish for our
breakfast, we presented the remainder to the group of villagers who had
assembled at a respectful distance to watch our doings. They seemed
wonderfully grateful, and heaped mountains of what I presumed to be
Irish blessings upon our heads.

Thus we spent several days, having splendid sport, and first-rate
appetites to do justice upon our prey. We were pleased to find how
friendly the villagers were inclined to be, and that there was no
evidence of their having ventured to meddle with our belongings during
our absences.

It was on a Tuesday that we arrived in Kraighten, and it would be on the
Sunday following that we made a great discovery. Hitherto we had always
gone up-stream; on that day, however, we laid aside our rods, and,
taking some provisions, set off for a long ramble in the opposite
direction. The day was warm, and we trudged along leisurely enough,
stopping about mid-day to eat our lunch upon a great flat rock near the
riverbank. Afterward we sat and smoked awhile, resuming our walk only
when we were tired of inaction.

For perhaps another hour we wandered onward, chatting quietly and
comfortably on this and that matter, and on several occasions stopping
while my companion--who is something of an artist--made rough sketches
of striking bits of the wild scenery.

And then, without any warning whatsoever, the river we had followed so
confidently, came to an abrupt end--vanishing into the earth.

"Good Lord!" I said, "who ever would have thought of this?"

And I stared in amazement; then I turned to Tonnison. He was looking,
with a blank expression upon his face, at the place where the river
disappeared.

In a moment he spoke.

"Let us go on a bit; i
t may reappear again--anyhow, it is worth
investigating."

I agreed, and we went forward once more, though rather aimlessly; for we
were not at all certain in which direction to prosecute our search. For
perhaps a mile we moved onward; then Tonnison, who had been gazing about
curiously, stopped and shaded his eyes.

"See!" he said, after a moment, "isn't that mist or something, over
there to the right--away in a line with that great piece of rock?" And
he indicated with his hand.

I stared, and, after a minute, seemed to see something, but could not be
certain, and said so.

"Anyway," my friend replied, "we'll just go across and have a glance."
And he started off in the direction he had suggested, I following.
Presently, we came among bushes, and, after a time, out upon the top of
a high, boulder-strewn bank, from which we looked down into a wilderness
of bushes and trees.

"Seems as though we had come upon an oasis in this desert of stone,"
muttered Tonnison, as he gazed interestedly. Then he was silent, his
eyes fixed; and I looked also; for up from somewhere about the center of
the wooded lowland there rose high into the quiet air a great column of
hazelike spray, upon which the sun shone, causing innumerable rainbows.

"How beautiful!" I exclaimed.

"Yes," answered Tonnison, thoughtfully. "There must be a waterfall, or
something, over there. Perhaps it's our river come to light again. Let's
go and see."

Down the sloping bank we made our way, and entered among the trees and
shrubberies. The bushes were matted, and the trees overhung us, so that
the place was disagreeably gloomy; though not dark enough to hide from
me the fact that many of the trees were fruit trees, and that, here and
there, one could trace indistinctly, signs of a long departed
cultivation. Thus it came to me that we were making our way through the
riot of a great and ancient garden. I said as much to Tonnison, and he
agreed that there certainly seemed reasonable grounds for my belief.

What a wild place it was, so dismal and somber! Somehow
, as we went
forward, a sense of the silent loneliness and desertion of the old
garden grew upon me, and I felt shivery. One could imagine things
lurking among the tangled bushes; while, in the very air of the place,
there seemed something uncanny. I think Tonnison was conscious of this
also, though he said nothing.

Suddenly, we came to a halt. Through the trees there had grown upon our
ears a distant sound. Tonnison bent forward, listening. I could hear it
more plainly now; it was continuous and harsh--a sort of droning roar,
seeming to come from far away. I experienced a queer, indescribable,
little feeling of nervousness. What sort of place was it into which we
had got? I looked at my companion, to see what he thought of the matter;
and noted that there was only puzzlement in his face; and then, as I
watched his features, an expression of comprehension crept over them,
and he nodded his head.

"That's a waterfall," he exclaimed, with conviction. "I know the sound
now." And he began to push vigorously through the bushes, in the
direction of the noise.

As we went forward, the sound became plainer continually, showing that
we were heading straight toward it. Steadily, the roaring grew louder
and nearer, until it appeared, as I remarked to Tonnison, almost to come
from under our feet--and still we were surrounded by the trees
and shrubs.

"Take care!" Tonnison called to me. "Look where you're going." And then,
suddenly, we came out from among the trees, on to a great open space,
where, not six paces in front of us, yawned the mouth of a tremendous
chasm, from the depths of which the noise appeared to rise, along with
the continuous, mistlike spray that we had witnessed from the top of the
distant bank.

For quite a minute we stood in silence, staring in bewilderment at the
sight; then my friend went forward cautiously to the edge of the abyss.
I followed, and, together, we looked down through a boil of spray at a
monster cataract of frothing water that burst, spouting, from the side
of the chasm, nearly a hundre
d feet below.

"Good Lord!" said Tonnison.

I was silent, and rather awed. The sight was so unexpectedly grand and
eerie; though this latter quality came more upon me later.

Presently, I looked up and across to the further side of the chasm.
There, I saw something towering up among the spray: it looked like a
fragment of a great ruin, and I touched Tonnison on the shoulder. He
glanced 'round, with a start, and I pointed toward the thing. His gaze
followed my finger, and his eyes lighted up with a sudden flash of
excitement, as the object came within his field of view.

"Come along," he shouted above the uproar. "We'll have a look at it.
There's something queer about this place; I feel it in my bones." And he
started off, 'round the edge of the craterlike abyss. As we neared this
new thing, I saw that I had not been mistaken in my first impression. It
was undoubtedly a portion of some ruined building; yet now I made out
that it was not built upon the edge of the chasm itself, as I had at
first supposed; but perched almost at the extreme end of a huge spur of
rock that jutted out some fifty or sixty feet over the abyss. In fact,
the jagged mass of ruin was literally suspended in midair.

Arriving opposite it, we walked out on to the projecting arm of rock,
and I must confess to having felt an intolerable sense of terror as I
looked down from that dizzy perch into the unknown depths below us--into
the deeps from which there rose ever the thunder of the falling water
and the shroud of rising spray.

Reaching the ruin, we clambered 'round it cautiously, and, on the
further side, came upon a mass of fallen stones and rubble. The ruin
itself seemed to me, as I proceeded now to examine it minutely, to be a
portion of the outer wall of some prodigious structure, it was so thick
and substantially built; yet what it was doing in such a position I
could by no means conjecture. Where was the rest of the house, or
castle, or whatever there had been?

I went back to the outer side of the wall, and thence to the edge of the
cha
sm, leaving Tonnison rooting systematically among the heap of stones
and rubbish on the outer side. Then I commenced to examine the surface
of the ground, near the edge of the abyss, to see whether there were not
left other remnants of the building to which the fragment of ruin
evidently belonged. But though I scrutinized the earth with the greatest
care, I could see no signs of anything to show that there had ever been
a building erected on the spot, and I grew more puzzled than ever.

Then, I heard a cry from Tonnison; he was shouting my name, excitedly,
and without delay I hurried along the rocky promontory to the ruin. I
wondered whether he had hurt himself, and then the thought came, that
perhaps he had found something.

I reached the crumbled wall and climbed 'round. There I found Tonnison
standing within a small excavation that he had made among the _debris_:
he was brushing the dirt from something that looked like a book, much
crumpled and dilapidated; and opening his mouth, every second or two, to
bellow my name. As soon as he saw that I had come, he handed his prize
to me, telling me to put it into my satchel so as to protect it from the
damp, while he continued his explorations. This I did, first, however,
running the pages through my fingers, and noting that they were closely
filled with neat, old-fashioned writing which was quite legible, save in
one portion, where many of the pages were almost destroyed, being
muddied and crumpled, as though the book had been doubled back at that
part. This, I found out from Tonnison, was actually as he had discovered
it, and the damage was due, probably, to the fall of masonry upon the
opened part. Curiously enough, the book was fairly dry, which I
attributed to its having been so securely buried among the ruins.

Having put the volume away safely, I turned-to and gave Tonnison a hand
with his self-imposed task of excavating; yet, though we put in over an
hour's hard work, turning over the whole of the upheaped stones and
rubbish, we came upon nothing more than som
e fragments of broken wood,
that might have been parts of a desk or table; and so we gave up
searching, and went back along the rock, once more to the safety of
the land.

The next thing we did was to make a complete tour of the tremendous
chasm, which we were able to observe was in the form of an almost
perfect circle, save for where the ruin-crowned spur of rock jutted out,
spoiling its symmetry.

The abyss was, as Tonnison put it, like nothing so much as a gigantic
well or pit going sheer down into the bowels of the earth.

For some time longer, we continued to stare about us, and then, noticing
that there was a clear space away to the north of the chasm, we bent our
steps in that direction.

Here, distant from the mouth of the mighty pit by some hundreds of
yards, we came upon a great lake of silent water--silent, that is, save
in one place where there was a continuous bubbling and gurgling.

Now, being away from the noise of the spouting cataract, we were able to
hear one another speak, without having to shout at the tops of our
voices, and I asked Tonnison what he thought of the place--I told him
that I didn't like it, and that the sooner we were out of it the better
I should be pleased.

He nodded in reply, and glanced at the woods behind furtively. I asked
him if he had seen or heard anything. He made no answer; but stood
silent, as though listening, and I kept quiet also.

Suddenly, he spoke.

"Hark!" he said, sharply. I looked at him, and then away among the trees
and bushes, holding my breath involuntarily. A minute came and went in
strained silence; yet I could hear nothing, and I turned to Tonnison to
say as much; and then, even as I opened my lips to speak, there came a
strange wailing noise out of the wood on our left.... It appeared to
float through the trees, and there was a rustle of stirring leaves, and
then silence.

All at once, Tonnison spoke, and put his hand on my shoulder. "Let us
get out of here," he said, and began to move slowly toward where the
surrounding trees and bushes seemed thin
nest. As I followed him, it came
to me suddenly that the sun was low, and that there was a raw sense of
chilliness in the air.

Tonnison said nothing further, but kept on steadily. We were among the
trees now, and I glanced around, nervously; but saw nothing, save the
quiet branches and trunks and the tangled bushes. Onward we went, and no
sound broke the silence, except the occasional snapping of a twig under
our feet, as we moved forward. Yet, in spite of the quietness, I had a
horrible feeling that we were not alone; and I kept so close to Tonnison
that twice I kicked his heels clumsily, though he said nothing. A
minute, and then another, and we reached the confines of the wood coming
out at last upon the bare rockiness of the countryside. Only then was I
able to shake off the haunting dread that had followed me among
the trees.

Once, as we moved away, there seemed to come again a distant sound of
wailing, and I said to myself that it was the wind--yet the evening was
breathless.

Presently, Tonnison began to talk.

"Look you," he said with decision, "I would not spend the night in
_that_ place for all the wealth that the world holds. There is something
unholy--diabolical--about it. It came to me all in a moment, just after
you spoke. It seemed to me that the woods were full of vile
things--you know!"

"Yes," I answered, and looked back toward the place; but it was hidden
from us by a rise in the ground.

"There's the book," I said, and I put my hand into the satchel.

"You've got it safely?" he questioned, with a sudden access of anxiety.

"Yes," I replied.

"Perhaps," he continued, "we shall learn something from it when we get
back to the tent. We had better hurry, too; we're a long way off still,
and I don't fancy, now, being caught out here in the dark."

It was two hours later when we reached the tent; and, without delay, we
set to work to prepare a meal; for we had eaten nothing since our lunch
at midday.

Supper over, we cleared the things out of the way, and lit our pipes.
Then Tonnison asked me to ge
t the manuscript out of my satchel. This I
did, and then, as we could not both read from it at the same time, he
suggested that I should read the thing out loud. "And mind," he
cautioned, knowing my propensities, "don't go skipping half the book."

Yet, had he but known what it contained, he would have realized how
needless such advice was, for once at least. And there seated in the
opening of our little tent, I began the strange tale of _The House on
the Borderland_ (for such was the title of the MS.); this is told in the
following pages.

_II_

THE PLAIN OF SILENCE

I am an old man. I live here in this ancient house, surrounded by huge,
unkempt gardens.

The peasantry, who inhabit the wilderness beyond, say that I am mad.
That is because I will have nothing to do with them. I live here alone
with my old sister, who is also my housekeeper. We keep no servants--I
hate them. I have one friend, a dog; yes, I would sooner have old Pepper
than the rest of Creation together. He, at least, understands me--and
has sense enough to leave me alone when I am in my dark moods.

I have decided to start a kind of diary; it may enable me to record
some of the thoughts and feelings that I cannot express to anyone; but,
beyond this, I am anxious to make some record of the strange things that
I have heard and seen, during many years of loneliness, in this weird
old building.

For a couple of centuries, this house has had a reputation, a bad one,
and, until I bought it, for more than eighty years no one had lived
here; consequently, I got the old place at a ridiculously low figure.

I am not superstitious; but I have ceased to deny that things happen
in this old house--things that I cannot explain; and, therefore, I must
needs ease my mind, by writing down an account of them, to the best of
my ability; though, should this, my diary, ever be read when I am gone,
the readers will but shake their heads, and be the more convinced that
I was mad.

This house, how ancient it is! though its age strikes one less,
perhaps, than the quaintne
ss of its structure, which is curious and
fantastic to the last degree. Little curved towers and pinnacles, with
outlines suggestive of leaping flames, predominate; while the body of
the building is in the form of a circle.

I have heard that there is an old story, told amongst the country
people, to the effect that the devil built the place. However, that is
as may be. True or not, I neither know nor care, save as it may have
helped to cheapen it, ere I came.

I must have been here some ten years before I saw sufficient to warrant
any belief in the stories, current in the neighborhood, about this
house. It is true that I had, on at least a dozen occasions, seen,
vaguely, things that puzzled me, and, perhaps, had felt more than I had
seen. Then, as the years passed, bringing age upon me, I became often
aware of something unseen, yet unmistakably present, in the empty rooms
and corridors. Still, it was as I have said many years before I saw any
real manifestations of the so-called supernatural.

It was not Halloween. If I were telling a story for amusement's sake, I
should probably place it on that night of nights; but this is a true
record of my own experiences, and I would not put pen to paper to amuse
anyone. No. It was after midnight on the morning of the twenty-first day
of January. I was sitting reading, as is often my custom, in my study.
Pepper lay, sleeping, near my chair.

Without warning, the flames of the two candles went low, and then
shone with a ghastly green effulgence. I looked up, quickly, and as I
did so I saw the lights sink into a dull, ruddy tint; so that the room
glowed with a strange, heavy, crimson twilight that gave the shadows
behind the chairs and tables a double depth of blackness; and wherever
the light struck, it was as though luminous blood had been splashed
over the room.

Down on the floor, I heard a faint, frightened whimper, and something
pressed itself in between my two feet. It was Pepper, cowering under my
dressing gown. Pepper, usually as brave as a lion!

It was this moveme
nt of the dog's, I think, that gave me the first
twinge of _real_ fear. I had been considerably startled when the lights
burnt first green and then red; but had been momentarily under the
impression that the change was due to some influx of noxious gas into
the room. Now, however, I saw that it was not so; for the candles burned
with a steady flame, and showed no signs of going out, as would have
been the case had the change been due to fumes in the atmosphere.

I did not move. I felt distinctly frightened; but could think of
nothing better to do than wait. For perhaps a minute, I kept my glance
about the room, nervously. Then I noticed that the lights had commenced
to sink, very slowly; until presently they showed minute specks of red
fire, like the gleamings of rubies in the darkness. Still, I sat
watching; while a sort of dreamy indifference seemed to steal over me;
banishing altogether the fear that had begun to grip me.

Away in the far end of the huge old-fashioned room, I became conscious
of a faint glow. Steadily it grew, filling the room with gleams of
quivering green light; then they sank quickly, and changed--even as the
candle flames had done--into a deep, somber crimson that strengthened,
and lit up the room with a flood of awful glory.

The light came from the end wall, and grew ever brighter until its
intolerable glare caused my eyes acute pain, and involuntarily I closed
them. It may have been a few seconds before I was able to open them. The
first thing I noticed was that the light had decreased, greatly; so that
it no longer tried my eyes. Then, as it grew still duller, I was aware,
all at once, that, instead of looking at the redness, I was staring
through it, and through the wall beyond.

Gradually, as I became more accustomed to the idea, I realized that I
was looking out on to a vast plain, lit with the same gloomy twilight
that pervaded the room. The immensity of this plain scarcely can be
conceived. In no part could I perceive its confines. It seemed to
broaden and spread out, so that the 
eye failed to perceive any
limitations. Slowly, the details of the nearer portions began to grow
clear; then, in a moment almost, the light died away, and the vision--if
vision it were--faded and was gone.

Suddenly, I became conscious that I was no longer in the chair.
Instead, I seemed to be hovering above it, and looking down at a dim
something, huddled and silent. In a little while, a cold blast struck
me, and I was outside in the night, floating, like a bubble, up through
the darkness. As I moved, an icy coldness seemed to enfold me, so that
I shivered.

After a time, I looked to right and left, and saw the intolerable
blackness of the night, pierced by remote gleams of fire. Onward,
outward, I drove. Once, I glanced behind, and saw the earth, a small
crescent of blue light, receding away to my left. Further off, the sun,
a splash of white flame, burned vividly against the dark.

An indefinite period passed. Then, for the last time, I saw the
earth--an enduring globule of radiant blue, swimming in an eternity of
ether. And there I, a fragile flake of soul dust, flickered silently
across the void, from the distant blue, into the expanse of the unknown.

A great while seemed to pass over me, and now I could nowhere see
anything. I had passed beyond the fixed stars and plunged into the huge
blackness that waits beyond. All this time I had experienced little,
save a sense of lightness and cold discomfort. Now however the atrocious
darkness seemed to creep into my soul, and I became filled with fear and
despair. What was going to become of me? Where was I going? Even as the
thoughts were formed, there grew against the impalpable blackness that
wrapped me a faint tinge of blood. It seemed extraordinarily remote, and
mistlike; yet, at once, the feeling of oppression was lightened, and I
no longer despaired.

Slowly, the distant redness became plainer and larger; until, as I drew
nearer, it spread out into a great, somber glare--dull and tremendous.
Still, I fled onward, and, presently, I had come so close, that it

seemed to stretch beneath me, like a great ocean of somber red. I could
see little, save that it appeared to spread out interminably in all
directions.

In a further space, I found that I was descending upon it; and, soon, I
sank into a great sea of sullen, red-hued clouds. Slowly, I emerged from
these, and there, below me, I saw the stupendous plain that I had seen
from my room in this house that stands upon the borders of the Silences.

Presently, I landed, and stood, surrounded by a great waste of
loneliness. The place was lit with a gloomy twilight that gave an
impression of indescribable desolation.

Afar to my right, within the sky, there burnt a gigantic ring of
dull-red fire, from the outer edge of which were projected huge,
writhing flames, darted and jagged. The interior of this ring was
black, black as the gloom of the outer night. I comprehended, at once,
that it was from this extraordinary sun that the place derived its
doleful light.

From that strange source of light, I glanced down again to my
surroundings. Everywhere I looked, I saw nothing but the same flat
weariness of interminable plain. Nowhere could I descry any signs of
life; not even the ruins of some ancient habitation.

Gradually, I found that I was being borne forward, floating across the
flat waste. For what seemed an eternity, I moved onward. I was unaware
of any great sense of impatience; though some curiosity and a vast
wonder were with me continually. Always, I saw around me the breadth of
that enormous plain; and, always, I searched for some new thing to break
its monotony; but there was no change--only loneliness, silence,
and desert.

Presently, in a half-conscious manner, I noticed that there was a faint
mistiness, ruddy in hue, lying over its surface. Still, when I looked
more intently, I was unable to say that it was really mist; for it
appeared to blend with the plain, giving it a peculiar unrealness, and
conveying to the senses the idea of unsubstantiality.

Gradually, I began to weary with the sameness of the thing. Yet, i
t was
a great time before I perceived any signs of the place, toward which I
was being conveyed.

"At first, I saw it, far ahead, like a long hillock on the surface of
the Plain. Then, as I drew nearer, I perceived that I had been mistaken;
for, instead of a low hill, I made out, now, a chain of great mountains,
whose distant peaks towered up into the red gloom, until they were
almost lost to sight."

_III_

THE HOUSE IN THE ARENA

And so, after a time, I came to the mountains. Then, the course of my
journey was altered, and I began to move along their bases, until, all
at once, I saw that I had come opposite to a vast rift, opening into the
mountains. Through this, I was borne, moving at no great speed. On
either side of me, huge, scarped walls of rocklike substance rose sheer.
Far overhead, I discerned a thin ribbon of red, where the mouth of the
chasm opened, among inaccessible peaks. Within, was gloom, deep and
somber, and chilly silence. For a while, I went onward steadily, and
then, at last, I saw, ahead, a deep, red glow, that told me I was near
upon the further opening of the gorge.

A minute came and went, and I was at the exit of the chasm, staring out
upon an enormous amphitheatre of mountains. Yet, of the mountains, and
the terrible grandeur of the place, I recked nothing; for I was
confounded with amazement to behold, at a distance of several miles and
occupying the center of the arena, a stupendous structure built
apparently of green jade. Yet, in itself, it was not the discovery of
the building that had so astonished me; but the fact, which became every
moment more apparent, that in no particular, save in color and its
enormous size, did the lonely structure vary from this house in which
I live.

For a while, I continued to stare, fixedly. Even then, I could scarcely
believe that I saw aright. In my mind, a question formed, reiterating
incessantly: 'What does it mean?' 'What does it mean?' and I was unable
to make answer, even out of the depths of my imagination. I seemed
capable only of wonder and
 fear. For a time longer, I gazed, noting
continually some fresh point of resemblance that attracted me. At last,
wearied and sorely puzzled, I turned from it, to view the rest of the
strange place on to which I had intruded.

Hitherto, I had been so engrossed in my scrutiny of the House, that I
had given only a cursory glance 'round. Now, as I looked, I began to
realize upon what sort of a place I had come. The arena, for so I have
termed it, appeared a perfect circle of about ten to twelve miles in
diameter, the House, as I have mentioned before, standing in the center.
The surface of the place, like to that of the Plain, had a peculiar,
misty appearance, that was yet not mist.

From a rapid survey, my glance passed quickly upward along the <DW72>s
of the circling mountains. How silent they were. I think that this same
abominable stillness was more trying to me than anything that I had so
far seen or imagined. I was looking up, now, at the great crags,
towering so loftily. Up there, the impalpable redness gave a blurred
appearance to everything.

And then, as I peered, curiously, a new terror came to me; for away up
among the dim peaks to my right, I had descried a vast shape of
blackness, giantlike. It grew upon my sight. It had an enormous equine
head, with gigantic ears, and seemed to peer steadfastly down into the
arena. There was that about the pose that gave me the impression of an
eternal watchfulness--of having warded that dismal place, through
unknown eternities. Slowly, the monster became plainer to me; and then,
suddenly, my gaze sprang from it to something further off and higher
among the crags. For a long minute, I gazed, fearfully. I was strangely
conscious of something not altogether unfamiliar--as though something
stirred in the back of my mind. The thing was black, and had four
grotesque arms. The features showed indistinctly, 'round the neck, I
made out several light- objects. Slowly, the details came to me,
and I realized, coldly, that they were skulls. Further down the body was
another circl
ing belt, showing less dark against the black trunk. Then,
even as I puzzled to know what the thing was, a memory slid into my
mind, and straightway, I knew that I was looking at a monstrous
representation of Kali, the Hindu goddess of death.

Other remembrances of my old student days drifted into my thoughts. My
glance fell back upon the huge beast-headed Thing. Simultaneously, I
recognized it for the ancient Egyptian god Set, or Seth, the Destroyer
of Souls. With the knowledge, there came a great sweep of
questioning--'Two of the--!' I stopped, and endeavored to think. Things
beyond my imagination peered into my frightened mind. I saw, obscurely.
'The old gods of mythology!' I tried to comprehend to what it was all
pointing. My gaze dwelt, flickeringly, between the two. 'If--'

An idea came swiftly, and I turned, and glanced rapidly upward,
searching the gloomy crags, away to my left. Something loomed out under
a great peak, a shape of greyness. I wondered I had not seen it earlier,
and then remembered I had not yet viewed that portion. I saw it more
plainly now. It was, as I have said, grey. It had a tremendous head; but
no eyes. That part of its face was blank.

Now, I saw that there were other things up among the mountains. Further
off, reclining on a lofty ledge, I made out a livid mass, irregular and
ghoulish. It seemed without form, save for an unclean, half-animal face,
that looked out, vilely, from somewhere about its middle. And then I saw
others--there were hundreds of them. They seemed to grow out of the
shadows. Several I recognized almost immediately as mythological
deities; others were strange to me, utterly strange, beyond the power of
a human mind to conceive.

On each side, I looked, and saw more, continually. The mountains were
full of strange things--Beast-gods, and Horrors so atrocious and bestial
that possibility and decency deny any further attempt to describe them.
And I--I was filled with a terrible sense of overwhelming horror and
fear and repugnance; yet, spite of these, I wondered exc
eedingly. Was
there then, after all, something in the old heathen worship, something
more than the mere deifying of men, animals, and elements? The thought
gripped me--was there?

Later, a question repeated itself. What were they, those Beast-gods,
and the others? At first, they had appeared to me just sculptured
Monsters placed indiscriminately among the inaccessible peaks and
precipices of the surrounding mountains. Now, as I scrutinized them with
greater intentness, my mind began to reach out to fresh conclusions.
There was something about them, an indescribable sort of silent vitality
that suggested, to my broadening consciousness, a state of
life-in-death--a something that was by no means life, as we understand
it; but rather an inhuman form of existence, that well might be likened
to a deathless trance--a condition in which it was possible to imagine
their continuing, eternally. 'Immortal!' the word rose in my thoughts
unbidden; and, straightway, I grew to wondering whether this might be
the immortality of the gods.

And then, in the midst of my wondering and musing, something happened.
Until then, I had been staying just within the shadow of the exit of the
great rift. Now, without volition on my part, I drifted out of the
semi-darkness and began to move slowly across the arena--toward the
House. At this, I gave up all thoughts of those prodigious Shapes above
me--and could only stare, frightenedly, at the tremendous structure
toward which I was being conveyed so remorselessly. Yet, though I
searched earnestly, I could discover nothing that I had not already
seen, and so became gradually calmer.

Presently, I had reached a point more than halfway between the House
and the gorge. All around was spread the stark loneliness of the place,
and the unbroken silence. Steadily, I neared the great building. Then,
all at once, something caught my vision, something that came 'round one
of the huge buttresses of the House, and so into full view. It was a
gigantic thing, and moved with a curious lope, going almost upri
ght,
after the manner of a man. It was quite unclothed, and had a remarkable
luminous appearance. Yet it was the face that attracted and frightened
me the most. It was the face of a swine.

Silently, intently, I watched this horrible creature, and forgot my
fear, momentarily, in my interest in its movements. It was making its
way, cumbrously 'round the building, stopping as it came to each window
to peer in and shake at the bars, with which--as in this house--they
were protected; and whenever it came to a door, it would push at it,
fingering the fastening stealthily. Evidently, it was searching for an
ingress into the House.

I had come now to within less than a quarter of a mile of the great
structure, and still I was compelled forward. Abruptly, the Thing turned
and gazed hideously in my direction. It opened its mouth, and, for the
first time, the stillness of that abominable place was broken, by a
deep, booming note that sent an added thrill of apprehension through me.
Then, immediately, I became aware that it was coming toward me, swiftly
and silently. In an instant, it had covered half the distance that lay
between. And still, I was borne helplessly to meet it. Only a hundred
yards, and the brutish ferocity of the giant face numbed me with a
feeling of unmitigated horror. I could have screamed, in the supremeness
of my fear; and then, in the very moment of my extremity and despair, I
became conscious that I was looking down upon the arena, from a rapidly
increasing height. I was rising, rising. In an inconceivably short
while, I had reached an altitude of many hundred feet. Beneath me, the
spot that I had just left, was occupied by the foul Swine-creature. It
had gone down on all fours and was snuffing and rooting, like a
veritable hog, at the surface of the arena. A moment and it rose to its
feet, clutching upward, with an expression of desire upon its face such
as I have never seen in this world.

Continually, I mounted higher. A few minutes, it seemed, and I had
risen above the great mountains--floating, 
alone, afar in the redness.
At a tremendous distance below, the arena showed, dimly; with the mighty
House looking no larger than a tiny spot of green. The Swine-thing was
no longer visible.

Presently, I passed over the mountains, out above the huge breadth of
the plain. Far away, on its surface, in the direction of the ring-shaped
sun, there showed a confused blur. I looked toward it, indifferently. It
reminded me, somewhat, of the first glimpse I had caught of the
mountain-amphitheatre.

With a sense of weariness, I glanced upward at the immense ring of
fire. What a strange thing it was! Then, as I stared, out from the dark
center, there spurted a sudden flare of extraordinary vivid fire.
Compared with the size of the black center, it was as naught; yet, in
itself, stupendous. With awakened interest, I watched it carefully,
noting its strange boiling and glowing. Then, in a moment, the whole
thing grew dim and unreal, and so passed out of sight. Much amazed, I
glanced down to the Plain from which I was still rising. Thus, I
received a fresh surprise. The Plain--everything had vanished, and only
a sea of red mist was spread far below me. Gradually as I stared this
grew remote, and died away into a dim far mystery of red against an
unfathomable night. A while, and even this had gone, and I was wrapped
in an impalpable, lightless gloom.

_IV_

THE EARTH

Thus I was, and only the memory that I had lived through the dark, once
before, served to sustain my thoughts. A great time passed--ages. And
then a single star broke its way through the darkness. It was the first
of one of the outlying clusters of this universe. Presently, it was far
behind, and all about me shone the splendor of the countless stars.
Later, years it seemed, I saw the sun, a clot of flame. Around it, I
made out presently several remote specks of light--the planets of the
Solar system. And so I saw the earth again, blue and unbelievably
minute. It grew larger, and became defined.

A long space of time came and went, and then at last I entered into
 the
shadow of the world--plunging headlong into the dim and holy earth
night. Overhead were the old constellations, and there was a crescent
moon. Then, as I neared the earth's surface, a dimness swept over me,
and I appeared to sink into a black mist.

For a while, I knew nothing. I was unconscious. Gradually, I became
aware of a faint, distant whining. It became plainer. A desperate
feeling of agony possessed me. I struggled madly for breath, and tried
to shout. A moment, and I got my breath more easily. I was conscious
that something was licking my hand. Something damp swept across my face.
I heard a panting, and then again the whining. It seemed to come to my
ears, now, with a sense of familiarity, and I opened my eyes. All was
dark; but the feeling of oppression had left me. I was seated, and
something was whining piteously, and licking me. I felt strangely
confused, and, instinctively, tried to ward off the thing that licked.
My head was curiously vacant, and, for the moment, I seemed incapable of
action or thought. Then, things came back to me, and I called 'Pepper,'
faintly. I was answered by a joyful bark, and renewed and
frantic caresses.

In a little while, I felt stronger, and put out my hand for the
matches. I groped about, for a few moments, blindly; then my hands lit
upon them, and I struck a light, and looked confusedly around. All about
me, I saw the old, familiar things. And there I sat, full of dazed
wonders, until the flame of the match burnt my finger, and I dropped it;
while a hasty expression of pain and anger, escaped my lips, surprising
me with the sound of my own voice.

After a moment, I struck another match, and, stumbling across the room,
lit the candles. As I did so, I observed that they had not burned away,
but had been put out.

As the flames shot up, I turned, and stared about the study; yet there
was nothing unusual to see; and, suddenly, a gust of irritation took me.
What had happened? I held my head, with both hands, and tried to
remember. Ah! the great, silent Plain, and the 
ring-shaped sun of red
fire. Where were they? Where had I seen them? How long ago? I felt dazed
and muddled. Once or twice, I walked up and down the room, unsteadily.
My memory seemed dulled, and, already, the thing I had witnessed came
back to me with an effort.

I have a remembrance of cursing, peevishly, in my bewilderment.
Suddenly, I turned faint and giddy, and had to grasp at the table for
support. During a few moments, I held on, weakly; and then managed to
totter sideways into a chair. After a little time, I felt somewhat
better, and succeeded in reaching the cupboard where, usually, I keep
brandy and biscuits. I poured myself out a little of the stimulant, and
drank it off. Then, taking a handful of biscuits, I returned to my
chair, and began to devour them, ravenously. I was vaguely surprised at
my hunger. I felt as though I had eaten nothing for an uncountably
long while.

As I ate, my glance roved about the room, taking in its various
details, and still searching, though almost unconsciously, for something
tangible upon which to take hold, among the invisible mysteries that
encompassed me. 'Surely,' I thought, 'there must be something--' And, in
the same instant, my gaze dwelt upon the face of the clock in the
opposite corner. Therewith, I stopped eating, and just stared. For,
though its ticking indicated most certainly that it was still going, the
hands were pointing to a little _before_ the hour of midnight; whereas
it was, as well I knew, considerably _after_ that time when I had
witnessed the first of the strange happenings I have just described.

For perhaps a moment I was astounded and puzzled. Had the hour been the
same as when I had last seen the clock, I should have concluded that the
hands had stuck in one place, while the internal mechanism went on as
usual; but that would, in no way, account for the hands having traveled
backward. Then, even as I turned the matter over in my wearied brain,
the thought flashed upon me that it was now close upon the morning of
the twenty-second, and that I h
ad been unconscious to the visible world
through the greater portion of the last twenty-four hours. The thought
occupied my attention for a full minute; then I commenced to eat again.
I was still very hungry.

During breakfast, next morning, I inquired casually of my sister
regarding the date, and found my surmise correct. I had, indeed, been
absent--at least in spirit--for nearly a day and a night.

My sister asked me no questions; for it is not by any means the first
time that I have kept to my study for a whole day, and sometimes a
couple of days at a time, when I have been particularly engrossed in my
books or work.

And so the days pass on, and I am still filled with a wonder to know
the meaning of all that I saw on that memorable night. Yet, well I know
that my curiosity is little likely to be satisfied.

_V_

THE THING IN THE PIT

This house is, as I have said before, surrounded by a huge estate, and
wild and uncultivated gardens.

Away at the back, distant some three hundred yards, is a dark, deep
ravine--spoken of as the 'Pit,' by the peasantry. At the bottom runs a
sluggish stream so overhung by trees as scarcely to be seen from above.

In passing, I must explain that this river has a subterranean origin,
emerging suddenly at the East end of the ravine, and disappearing, as
abruptly, beneath the cliffs that form its Western extremity.

It was some months after my vision (if vision it were) of the great
Plain that my attention was particularly attracted to the Pit.

I happened, one day, to be walking along its Southern edge, when,
suddenly, several pieces of rock and shale were dislodged from the face
of the cliff immediately beneath me, and fell with a sullen crash
through the trees. I heard them splash in the river at the bottom; and
then silence. I should not have given this incident more than a passing
thought, had not Pepper at once begun to bark savagely; nor would he be
silent when I bade him, which is most unusual behavior on his part.

Feeling that there must be someone or something in the Pit, 
I went back
to the house, quickly, for a stick. When I returned, Pepper had ceased
his barks and was growling and smelling, uneasily, along the top.

Whistling to him to follow me, I started to descend cautiously. The
depth to the bottom of the Pit must be about a hundred and fifty feet,
and some time as well as considerable care was expended before we
reached the bottom in safety.

Once down, Pepper and I started to explore along the banks of the
river. It was very dark there due to the overhanging trees, and I moved
warily, keeping my glance about me and my stick ready.

Pepper was quiet now and kept close to me all the time. Thus, we
searched right up one side of the river, without hearing or seeing
anything. Then, we crossed over--by the simple method of jumping--and
commenced to beat our way back through the underbrush.

We had accomplished perhaps half the distance, when I heard again the
sound of falling stones on the other side--the side from which we had
just come. One large rock came thundering down through the treetops,
struck the opposite bank, and bounded into the river, driving a great
jet of water right over us. At this, Pepper gave out a deep growl; then
stopped, and pricked up his ears. I listened, also.

A second later, a loud, half-human, half-piglike squeal sounded from
among the trees, apparently about halfway up the South cliff. It was
answered by a similar note from the bottom of the Pit. At this, Pepper
gave a short, sharp bark, and, springing across the little river,
disappeared into the bushes.

Immediately afterward, I heard his barks increase in depth and number,
and in between there sounded a noise of confused jabbering. This ceased,
and, in the succeeding silence, there rose a semi-human yell of agony.
Almost immediately, Pepper gave a long-drawn howl of pain, and then the
shrubs were violently agitated, and he came running out with his tail
down, and glancing as he ran over his shoulder. As he reached me, I saw
that he was bleeding from what appeared to be a great claw wound in the

side that had almost laid bare his ribs.

Seeing Pepper thus mutilated, a furious feeling of anger seized me,
and, whirling my staff, I sprang across, and into the bushes from which
Pepper had emerged. As I forced my way through, I thought I heard a
sound of breathing. Next instant, I had burst into a little clear space,
just in time to see something, livid white in color, disappear among the
bushes on the opposite side. With a shout, I ran toward it; but, though
I struck and probed among the bushes with my stick, I neither saw nor
heard anything further; and so returned to Pepper. There, after bathing
his wound in the river, I bound my wetted handkerchief 'round his body;
having done which, we retreated up the ravine and into the
daylight again.

On reaching the house, my sister inquired what had happened to Pepper,
and I told her he had been fighting with a wildcat, of which I had heard
there were several about.

I felt it would be better not to tell her how it had really happened;
though, to be sure, I scarcely knew myself; but this I did know, that
the thing I had seen run into the bushes was no wildcat. It was much too
big, and had, so far as I had observed, a skin like a hog's, only of a
dead, unhealthy white color. And then--it had run upright, or nearly so,
upon its hind feet, with a motion somewhat resembling that of a human
being. This much I had noticed in my brief glimpse, and, truth to tell,
I felt a good deal of uneasiness, besides curiosity as I turned the
matter over in my mind.

It was in the morning that the above incident had occurred.

Then, it would be after dinner, as I sat reading, that, happening to
look up suddenly, I saw something peering in over the window ledge the
eyes and ears alone showing.

'A pig, by Jove!' I said, and rose to my feet. Thus, I saw the thing
more completely; but it was no pig--God alone knows what it was. It
reminded me, vaguely, of the hideous Thing that had haunted the great
arena. It had a grotesquely human mouth and jaw; but with no chin of
which to speak. The 
nose was prolonged into a snout; thus it was that
with the little eyes and queer ears, gave it such an extraordinarily
swinelike appearance. Of forehead there was little, and the whole face
was of an unwholesome white color.

For perhaps a minute, I stood looking at the thing with an ever growing
feeling of disgust, and some fear. The mouth kept jabbering, inanely,
and once emitted a half-swinish grunt. I think it was the eyes that
attracted me the most; they seemed to glow, at times, with a horribly
human intelligence, and kept flickering away from my face, over the
details of the room, as though my stare disturbed it.

It appeared to be supporting itself by two clawlike hands upon the
windowsill. These claws, unlike the face, were of a clayey brown hue,
and bore an indistinct resemblance to human hands, in that they had four
fingers and a thumb; though these were webbed up to the first joint,
much as are a duck's. Nails it had also, but so long and powerful that
they were more like the talons of an eagle than aught else.

As I have said, before, I felt some fear; though almost of an
impersonal kind. I may explain my feeling better by saying that it was
more a sensation of abhorrence; such as one might expect to feel, if
brought in contact with something superhumanly foul; something
unholy--belonging to some hitherto undreamt of state of existence.

I cannot say that I grasped these various details of the brute at the
time. I think they seemed to come back to me, afterward, as though
imprinted upon my brain. I imagined more than I saw as I looked at the
thing, and the material details grew upon me later.

For perhaps a minute I stared at the creature; then as my nerves
steadied a little I shook off the vague alarm that held me, and took a
step toward the window. Even as I did so, the thing ducked and vanished.
I rushed to the door and looked 'round hurriedly; but only the tangled
bushes and shrubs met my gaze.

I ran back into the house, and, getting my gun, sallied out to search
through the gardens. As I went, 
I asked myself whether the thing I had
just seen was likely to be the same of which I had caught a glimpse in
the morning. I inclined to think it was.

I would have taken Pepper with me; but judged it better to give his
wound a chance to heal. Besides, if the creature I had just seen was, as
I imagined, his antagonist of the morning, it was not likely that he
would be of much use.

I began my search, systematically. I was determined, if it were
possible, to find and put an end to that swine-thing. This was, at
least, a material Horror!

At first, I searched, cautiously; with the thought of Pepper's wound in
my mind; but, as the hours passed, and not a sign of anything living,
showed in the great, lonely gardens, I became less apprehensive. I felt
almost as though I would welcome the sight of it. Anything seemed better
than this silence, with the ever-present feeling that the creature might
be lurking in every bush I passed. Later, I grew careless of danger, to
the extent of plunging right through the bushes, probing with my gun
barrel as I went.

At times, I shouted; but only the echoes answered back. I thought thus
perhaps to frighten or stir the creature to showing itself; but only
succeeded in bringing my sister Mary out, to know what was the matter. I
told her, that I had seen the wildcat that had wounded Pepper, and that
I was trying to hunt it out of the bushes. She seemed only half
satisfied, and went back into the house, with an expression of doubt
upon her face. I wondered whether she had seen or guessed anything. For
the rest of the afternoon, I prosecuted the search anxiously. I felt
that I should be unable to sleep, with that bestial thing haunting the
shrubberies, and yet, when evening fell, I had seen nothing. Then, as I
turned homeward, I heard a short, unintelligible noise, among the bushes
to my right. Instantly, I turned, and, aiming quickly, fired in the
direction of the sound. Immediately afterward, I heard something
scuttling away among the bushes. It moved rapidly, and in a minute had
gone o
ut of hearing. After a few steps I ceased my pursuit, realizing
how futile it must be in the fast gathering gloom; and so, with a
curious feeling of depression, I entered the house.

That night, after my sister had gone to bed, I went 'round to all the
windows and doors on the ground floor; and saw to it that they were
securely fastened. This precaution was scarcely necessary as regards the
windows, as all of those on the lower storey are strongly barred; but
with the doors--of which there are five--it was wisely thought, as not
one was locked.

Having secured these, I went to my study, yet, somehow, for once, the
place jarred upon me; it seemed so huge and echoey. For some time I
tried to read; but at last finding it impossible I carried my book down
to the kitchen where a large fire was burning, and sat there.

I dare say, I had read for a couple of hours, when, suddenly, I heard a
sound that made me lower my book, and listen, intently. It was a noise
of something rubbing and fumbling against the back door. Once the door
creaked, loudly; as though force were being applied to it. During those
few, short moments, I experienced an indescribable feeling of terror,
such as I should have believed impossible. My hands shook; a cold sweat
broke out on me, and I shivered violently.

Gradually, I calmed. The stealthy movements outside had ceased.

Then for an hour I sat silent and watchful. All at once the feeling of
fear took me again. I felt as I imagine an animal must, under the eye of
a snake. Yet now I could hear nothing. Still, there was no doubting that
some unexplained influence was at work.

Gradually, imperceptibly almost, something stole on my ear--a sound
that resolved itself into a faint murmur. Quickly it developed and grew
into a muffled but hideous chorus of bestial shrieks. It appeared to
rise from the bowels of the earth.

I heard a thud, and realized in a dull, half comprehending way that I
had dropped my book. After that, I just sat; and thus the daylight found
me, when it crept wanly in through the b
arred, high windows of the
great kitchen.

With the dawning light, the feeling of stupor and fear left me; and I
came more into possession of my senses.

Thereupon I picked up my book, and crept to the door to listen. Not a
sound broke the chilly silence. For some minutes I stood there; then,
very gradually and cautiously, I drew back the bolt and opening the door
peeped out.

My caution was unneeded. Nothing was to be seen, save the grey vista of
dreary, tangled bushes and trees, extending to the distant plantation.

With a shiver, I closed the door, and made my way, quietly, up to bed.

_VI_

THE SWINE-THINGS

It was evening, a week later. My sister sat in the garden, knitting. I
was walking up and down, reading. My gun leant up against the wall of
the house; for, since the advent of that strange thing in the gardens, I
had deemed it wise to take precautions. Yet, through the whole week,
there had been nothing to alarm me, either by sight or sound; so that I
was able to look back, calmly, to the incident; though still with a
sense of unmitigated wonder and curiosity.

I was, as I have just said, walking up and down, and somewhat engrossed
in my book. Suddenly, I heard a crash, away in the direction of the Pit.
With a quick movement, I turned and saw a tremendous column of dust
rising high into the evening air.

My sister had risen to her feet, with a sharp exclamation of surprise
and fright.

Telling her to stay where she was, I snatched up my gun, and ran toward
the Pit. As I neared it, I heard a dull, rumbling sound, that grew
quickly into a roar, split with deeper crashes, and up from the Pit
drove a fresh volume of dust.

The noise ceased, though the dust still rose, tumultuously.

I reached the edge, and looked down; but could see nothing save a boil
of dust clouds swirling hither and thither. The air was so full of the
small particles, that they blinded and choked me; and, finally, I had to
run out from the smother, to breathe.

Gradually, the suspended matter sank, and hung in a panoply over the
mouth of
 the Pit.

I could only guess at what had happened.

That there had been a land-slip of some kind, I had little doubt; but
the cause was beyond my knowledge; and yet, even then, I had half
imaginings; for, already, the thought had come to me, of those falling
rocks, and that Thing in the bottom of the Pit; but, in the first
minutes of confusion, I failed to reach the natural conclusion, to which
the catastrophe pointed.

Slowly, the dust subsided, until, presently, I was able to approach the
edge, and look down.

For a while, I peered impotently, trying to see through the reek. At
first, it was impossible to make out anything. Then, as I stared, I saw
something below, to my left, that moved. I looked intently toward it,
and, presently, made out another, and then another--three dim shapes
that appeared to be climbing up the side of the Pit. I could see them
only indistinctly. Even as I stared and wondered, I heard a rattle of
stones, somewhere to my right. I glanced across; but could see nothing.
I leant forward, and peered over, and down into the Pit, just beneath
where I stood; and saw no further than a hideous, white swine-face, that
had risen to within a couple of yards of my feet. Below it, I could make
out several others. As the Thing saw me, it gave a sudden, uncouth
squeal, which was answered from all parts of the Pit. At that, a gust of
horror and fear took me, and, bending down, I discharged my gun right
into its face. Straightway, the creature disappeared, with a clatter of
loose earth and stones.

There was a momentary silence, to which, probably, I owe my life; for,
during it, I heard a quick patter of many feet, and, turning sharply,
saw a troop of the creatures coming toward me, at a run. Instantly, I
raised my gun and fired at the foremost, who plunged head-long, with a
hideous howling. Then, I turned to run. More than halfway from the house
to the Pit, I saw my sister--she was coming toward me. I could not see
her face, distinctly, as the dusk had fallen; but there was fear in her
voice as she cal
led to know why I was shooting.

'Run!' I shouted in reply. 'Run for your life!'

Without more ado, she turned and fled--picking up her skirts with both
hands. As I followed, I gave a glance behind. The brutes were running on
their hind legs--at times dropping on all fours.

I think it must have been the terror in my voice, that spurred Mary to
run so; for I feel convinced that she had not, as yet, seen those hell
creatures that pursued.

On we went, my sister leading.

Each moment, the nearing sounds of the footsteps, told me that the
brutes were gaining on us, rapidly. Fortunately, I am accustomed to
live, in some ways, an active life. As it was, the strain of the race
was beginning to tell severely upon me.

Ahead, I could see the back door--luckily it was open. I was some
half-dozen yards behind Mary, now, and my breath was sobbing in my
throat. Then, something touched my shoulder. I wrenched my head 'round,
quickly, and saw one of those monstrous, pallid faces close to mine. One
of the creatures, having outrun its companions, had almost overtaken me.
Even as I turned, it made a fresh grab. With a sudden effort, I sprang
to one side, and, swinging my gun by the barrel, brought it crashing
down upon the foul creature's head. The Thing dropped, with an almost
human groan.

Even this short delay had been nearly sufficient to bring the rest of
the brutes down upon me; so that, without an instant's waste of time, I
turned and ran for the door.

Reaching it, I burst into the passage; then, turning quickly, slammed
and bolted the door, just as the first of the creatures rushed against
it, with a sudden shock.

My sister sat, gasping, in a chair. She seemed in a fainting condition;
but I had no time then to spend on her. I had to make sure that all the
doors were fastened. Fortunately, they were. The one leading from my
study into the gardens, was the last to which I went. I had just had
time to note that it was secured, when I thought I heard a noise
outside. I stood perfectly silent, and listened. Yes! Now I could

distinctly hear a sound of whispering, and something slithered over the
panels, with a rasping, scratchy noise. Evidently, some of the brutes
were feeling with their claw-hands, about the door, to discover whether
there were any means of ingress.

That the creatures should so soon have found the door was--to me--a
proof of their reasoning capabilities. It assured me that they must not
be regarded, by any means, as mere animals. I had felt something of this
before, when that first Thing peered in through my window. Then I had
applied the term superhuman to it, with an almost instinctive knowledge
that the creature was something different from the brute-beast.
Something beyond human; yet in no good sense; but rather as something
foul and hostile to the _great_ and _good_ in humanity. In a word, as
something intelligent, and yet inhuman. The very thought of the
creatures filled me with revulsion.

Now, I bethought me of my sister, and, going to the cupboard, I got
out a flask of brandy, and a wine-glass. Taking these, I went down to
the kitchen, carrying a lighted candle with me. She was not sitting in
the chair, but had fallen out, and was lying upon the floor,
face downward.

Very gently, I turned her over, and raised her head somewhat. Then, I
poured a little of the brandy between her lips. After a while, she
shivered slightly. A little later, she gave several gasps, and opened
her eyes. In a dreamy, unrealizing way, she looked at me. Then her eyes
closed, slowly, and I gave her a little more of the brandy. For, perhaps
a minute longer, she lay silent, breathing quickly. All at once, her
eyes opened again, and it seemed to me, as I looked, that the pupils
were dilated, as though fear had come with returning consciousness.
Then, with a movement so unexpected that I started backward, she sat up.
Noticing that she seemed giddy, I put out my hand to steady her. At
that, she gave a loud scream, and, scrambling to her feet, ran from
the room.

For a moment, I stayed there--kneeling and holding the brandy flask. I
was u
tterly puzzled and astonished.

Could she be afraid of me? But no! Why should she? I could only
conclude that her nerves were badly shaken, and that she was temporarily
unhinged. Upstairs, I heard a door bang, loudly, and I knew that she had
taken refuge in her room. I put the flask down on the table. My
attention was distracted by a noise in the direction of the back door. I
went toward it, and listened. It appeared to be shaken, as though some
of the creatures struggled with it, silently; but it was far too
strongly constructed and hung to be easily moved.

Out in the gardens rose a continuous sound. It might have been
mistaken, by a casual listener, for the grunting and squealing of a herd
of pigs. But, as I stood there, it came to me that there was sense and
meaning to all those swinish noises. Gradually, I seemed able to trace
a semblance in it to human speech--glutinous and sticky, as though each
articulation were made with difficulty: yet, nevertheless, I was
becoming convinced that it was no mere medley of sounds; but a rapid
interchange of ideas.

By this time, it had grown quite dark in the passages, and from these
came all the varied cries and groans of which an old house is so full
after nightfall. It is, no doubt, because things are then quieter, and
one has more leisure to hear. Also, there may be something in the theory
that the sudden change of temperature, at sundown, affects the structure
of the house, somewhat--causing it to contract and settle, as it were,
for the night. However, this is as may be; but, on that night in
particular, I would gladly have been quit of so many eerie noises. It
seemed to me, that each crack and creak was the coming of one of those
Things along the dark corridors; though I knew in my heart that this
could not be, for I had seen, myself, that all the doors were secure.

Gradually, however, these sounds grew on my nerves to such an extent
that, were it only to punish my cowardice, I felt I must make the 'round
of the basement again, and, if anything were there, face it
. And then, I
would go up to my study, for I knew sleep was out of the question, with
the house surrounded by creatures, half beasts, half something else, and
entirely unholy.

Taking the kitchen lamp down from its hook, I made my way from cellar
to cellar, and room to room; through pantry and coal-hole--along
passages, and into the hundred-and-one little blind alleys and hidden
nooks that form the basement of the old house. Then, when I knew I had
been in every corner and cranny large enough to conceal aught of any
size, I made my way to the stairs.

With my foot on the first step, I paused. It seemed to me, I heard a
movement, apparently from the buttery, which is to the left of the
staircase. It had been one of the first places I searched, and yet, I
felt certain my ears had not deceived me. My nerves were strung now,
and, with hardly any hesitation, I stepped up to the door, holding the
lamp above my head. In a glance, I saw that the place was empty, save
for the heavy, stone slabs, supported by brick pillars; and I was about
to leave it, convinced that I had been mistaken; when, in turning, my
light was flashed back from two bright spots outside the window, and
high up. For a few moments, I stood there, staring. Then they
moved--revolving slowly, and throwing out alternate scintillations of
green and red; at least, so it appeared to me. I knew then that they
were eyes.

Slowly, I traced the shadowy outline of one of the Things. It appeared
to be holding on to the bars of the window, and its attitude suggested
climbing. I went nearer to the window, and held the light higher. There
was no need to be afraid of the creature; the bars were strong, and
there was little danger of its being able to move them. And then,
suddenly, in spite of the knowledge that the brute could not reach to
harm me, I had a return of the horrible sensation of fear, that had
assailed me on that night, a week previously. It was the same feeling of
helpless, shuddering fright. I realized, dimly, that the creature's eyes
were looking into 
mine with a steady, compelling stare. I tried to turn
away; but could not. I seemed, now, to see the window through a mist.
Then, I thought other eyes came and peered, and yet others; until a
whole galaxy of malignant, staring orbs seemed to hold me in thrall.

My head began to swim, and throb violently. Then, I was aware of a
feeling of acute physical pain in my left hand. It grew more severe, and
forced, literally forced, my attention. With a tremendous effort, I
glanced down; and, with that, the spell that had held me was broken. I
realized, then, that I had, in my agitation, unconsciously caught hold
of the hot lamp-glass, and burnt my hand, badly. I looked up to the
window, again. The misty appearance had gone, and, now, I saw that it
was crowded with dozens of bestial faces. With a sudden access of rage,
I raised the lamp, and hurled it, full at the window. It struck the
glass (smashing a pane), and passed between two of the bars, out into
the garden, scattering burning oil as it went. I heard several loud
cries of pain, and, as my sight became accustomed to the dark, I
discovered that the creatures had left the window.

Pulling myself together, I groped for the door, and, having found it,
made my way upstairs, stumbling at each step. I felt dazed, as though I
had received a blow on the head. At the same time, my hand smarted
badly, and I was full of a nervous, dull rage against those Things.

Reaching my study, I lit the candles. As they burnt up, their rays were
reflected from the rack of firearms on the sidewall. At the sight, I
remembered that I had there a power, which, as I had proved earlier,
seemed as fatal to those monsters as to more ordinary animals; and I
determined I would take the offensive.

First of all, I bound up my hand; for the pain was fast becoming
intolerable. After that, it seemed easier, and I crossed the room, to
the rifle stand. There, I selected a heavy rifle--an old and tried
weapon; and, having procured ammunition, I made my way up into one of
the small towers, with which the h
ouse is crowned.

From there, I found that I could see nothing. The gardens presented a
dim blur of shadows--a little blacker, perhaps, where the trees stood.
That was all, and I knew that it was useless to shoot down into all that
darkness. The only thing to be done, was to wait for the moon to rise;
then, I might be able to do a little execution.

In the meantime, I sat still, and kept my ears open. The gardens were
comparatively quiet now, and only an occasional grunt or squeal came up
to me. I did not like this silence; it made me wonder on what devilry
the creatures were bent. Twice, I left the tower, and took a walk
through the house; but everything was silent.

Once, I heard a noise, from the direction of the Pit, as though more
earth had fallen. Following this, and lasting for some fifteen minutes,
there was a commotion among the denizens of the gardens. This died away,
and, after that all was again quiet.

About an hour later, the moon's light showed above the distant horizon.
From where I sat, I could see it over the trees; but it was not until it
rose clear of them, that I could make out any of the details in the
gardens below. Even then, I could see none of the brutes; until,
happening to crane forward, I saw several of them lying prone, up
against the wall of the house. What they were doing, I could not make
out. It was, however, a chance too good to be ignored; and, taking aim,
I fired at the one directly beneath. There was a shrill scream, and, as
the smoke cleared away, I saw that it had turned on its back, and was
writhing, feebly. Then, it was quiet. The others had disappeared.

Immediately after this, I heard a loud squeal, in the direction of the
Pit. It was answered, a hundred times, from every part of the garden.
This gave me some notion of the number of the creatures, and I began to
feel that the whole affair was becoming even more serious than I
had imagined.

As I sat there, silent and watchful, the thought came to me--Why was
all this? What were these Things? What did it mean? Then my th
oughts
flew back to that vision (though, even now, I doubt whether it was a
vision) of the Plain of Silence. What did that mean? I wondered--And
that Thing in the arena? Ugh! Lastly, I thought of the house I had seen
in that far-away place. That house, so like this in every detail of
external structure, that it might have been modeled from it; or this
from that. I had never thought of that--

At this moment, there came another long squeal, from the Pit, followed,
a second later, by a couple of shorter ones. At once, the garden was
filled with answering cries. I stood up, quickly, and looked over the
parapet. In the moonlight, it seemed as though the shrubberies were
alive. They tossed hither and thither, as though shaken by a strong,
irregular wind; while a continuous rustling, and a noise of scampering
feet, rose up to me. Several times, I saw the moonlight gleam on
running, white figures among the bushes, and, twice, I fired. The second
time, my shot was answered by a short squeal of pain.

A minute later, the gardens lay silent. From the Pit, came a deep,
hoarse Babel of swine-talk. At times, angry cries smote the air, and
they would be answered by multitudinous gruntings. It occurred to me,
that they were holding some kind of a council, perhaps to discuss the
problem of entering the house. Also, I thought that they seemed much
enraged, probably by my successful shots.

It occurred to me, that now would be a good time to make a final survey
of our defenses. This, I proceeded to do at once; visiting the whole of
the basement again, and examining each of the doors. Luckily, they are
all, like the back one, built of solid, iron-studded oak. Then, I went
upstairs to the study. I was more anxious about this door. It is,
palpably, of a more modern make than the others, and, though a stout
piece of work, it has little of their ponderous strength.

I must explain here, that there is a small, raised lawn on this side of
the house, upon which this door opens--the windows of the study being
barred on this account. All th
e other entrances--excepting the great
gateway which is never opened--are in the lower storey.

_VII_

THE ATTACK

I spent some time, puzzling how to strengthen the study door. Finally,
I went down to the kitchen, and with some trouble, brought up several
heavy pieces of timber. These, I wedged up, slantwise, against it, from
the floor, nailing them top and bottom. For half-an-hour, I worked hard,
and, at last, got it shored to my mind.

Then, feeling easier, I resumed my coat, which I had laid aside, and
proceeded to attend to one or two matters before returning to the tower.
It was whilst thus employed, that I heard a fumbling at the door, and
the latch was tried. Keeping silence, I waited. Soon, I heard several of
the creatures outside. They were grunting to one another, softly. Then,
for a minute, there was quietness. Suddenly, there sounded a quick, low
grunt, and the door creaked under a tremendous pressure. It would have
burst inward; but for the supports I had placed. The strain ceased, as
quickly as it had begun, and there was more talk.

Presently, one of the Things squealed, softly, and I heard the sound
of others approaching. There was a short confabulation; then again,
silence; and I realized that they had called several more to assist.
Feeling that now was the supreme moment, I stood ready, with my rifle
presented. If the door gave, I would, at least, slay as many
as possible.

Again came the low signal; and, once more, the door cracked, under a
huge force. For, a minute perhaps, the pressure was kept up; and I
waited, nervously; expecting each moment to see the door come down with
a crash. But no; the struts held, and the attempt proved abortive. Then
followed more of their horrible, grunting talk, and, whilst it lasted, I
thought I distinguished the noise of fresh arrivals.

After a long discussion, during which the door was several times
shaken, they became quiet once more, and I knew that they were going to
make a third attempt to break it down. I was almost in despair. The
props had been severe
<|endoftext|>
AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION, VOL. 10, ISSUE 268, AUGUST 11, 1827***

E-text prepared by Jonathan Ingram and Project Gutenberg Distributed
Proofreaders

Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
 file which includes the original illustration.
 See 10026-h.htm or 10026-h.zip:
 (http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/1/0/0/2/10026/10026-h/10026-h.htm)
 or
 (http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/1/0/0/2/10026/10026-h/10026-h.zip)

THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, No. 268.] SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

 * * * * *

HOSPITAL OF ST. THOMAS, CANTERBURY.

[Illustration]

The subject of the above engraving claims the attention of the
antiquarian researcher, not as the lofty sculptured mansion of our
monastic progenitors, or the towering castle of the feudatory baton, for
never has the voice of boisterous revelry, or the tones of the solemn
organ, echoed along its vaulted roof; a humbler but not less interesting
trait marks its history. It was here that the zealous pilgrim, strong in
bigot faith, rested his weary limbs, when the inspiring name of Becket
led him from the rustic simplicity of his native home, to view the spot
where Becket fell, and to murmur his pious supplication at the shrine of
the murdered Saint; how often has his toil-worn frame been sheltered
beneath that hospitable roof; imagination can even portray him entering
the area of yon pointed arch, leaning on his slender staff--perhaps some
wanderer from a foreign land.

The hospital of St. Thomas the Martyr of Eastbridge, is situated on the
King's-bridge, in the hundred of Westgate, Canterbury, and was built by
Becket, but for what purpose is unknown. However, after the
assassination of its founder, the resort of individuals being constant
to his shrine, the building was used for the lodgment of the pilgrims.
For many years no especial statutes were enacted, nor any definite rules
laid down for the treatment of pilgrims, till the see devolved to the
jurisdiction of Stratford, who, in 15th Edward III. drew up certain

ordinances, as also a code of regulations expressly to be acted on; he
appointed a master in priest's orders, under whose guidance a secular
chaplain officiated; it was also observed that every pilgrim in health
should have but one night's lodging to the cost of fourpence; that
applicants weak and infirm were to be preferred to those of sounder
constitutions, and that women "upwards of forty" should attend to the
bedding, and administer medicines to the sick.

This institution survived the general suppression of monasteries and
buildings of its cast, during the reigns of Henry VIII. and the sixth
Edward; and after alternately grading from the possession of private
families to that of brothers belonging to the establishment, it was at
last finally appropriated to the instruction of the rising generation,
whose parents are exempt from giving any gratuity to the preceptor of
their children.

Its present appearance is ancient, but not possessing any of those magic
features which render the mansions of our majores so grand and
magnificently solemn; a hall and chapel of imposing neatness and
simplicity are still in good condition, but several of the
apartments are dilapidated in part, and during a wet season admit the
aqueous fluid through the chinks and fissures of their venerable walls.

SAGITTARIUS.

 * * * * *

THE LECTURER.

 * * * * *

MINOR AFFECTIONS OF THE BRAIN.

Pain _in the head_ may arise from very different causes, and is
variously seated. It has had a number of different appellations bestowed
upon it, according to its particular character. I need not observe that
headach is a general attendant of all inflammatory states of the brain,
whether in the form of _phrenitis, hydrocephalus acutus_, or _idiopathic
fever;_ though with some exceptions in regard to all of them, as I
before showed you. It is often also said to be a symptom of other
diseases, of parts remotely situated; as of the _stomach_, more
especially; whence the term _sick headach_, the stomach being supposed
to be the part first or principally
 affected, and the headach
symptomatic of this. I am confident, however, that in a majority of
instances the reverse is the case, the affection of the head being the
cause of the disorder of the stomach. It is no proof to the contrary,
that _vomiting_ often relieves the headach, for vomiting is capable of
relieving a great number of other diseases, as well as those of the
brain, upon the principle of _counter-irritation_. The stomach may be
disordered by nauseating medicines, up to the degree of full vomiting,
without any headach taking place; but the brain hardly ever suffers,
either from injury or disease, without the stomach having its functions
impaired, or in a greater or less degree disturbed: thus a blow on the
head immediately produces vomiting; and, at the outset of various
inflammatory affections of the brain, as _fever_ and _hydrocephalus_,
nausea and vomiting are almost never-failing symptoms. It is not denied,
that _headach_ may be produced through the medium of the stomach; but
seldom, unless there is previously disease in the head, or at least a
strong predisposition to it. In persons habitually subject to headach,
the arteries of the brain become so irritable, that the slightest cause
of disturbance, either _mental_ or _bodily_, will suffice to bring on a
paroxysm.

The _occasional_ or _exciting causes of headach_, then, are principally
these:--

1. _Emotions of mind_, as fear, terror, and agitation of spirits; yet
these will sometimes take off headach when present at the time.

2. Whatever either increases or disorders the general circulation, and
especially all causes that increase the action of the cerebral arteries,
or, as it is usually though improperly expressed, which occasion a
determination of blood to the head. Of the former kind are violent
exercise, and external heat applied to the surface generally, as by a
heated atmosphere or the _hot bath_; of the latter, the direct
application of heat to the head; falls or blows, occasioning a shock to
the brain; stooping; intense thinking; intoxi
cating drinks, and other
narcotic substances. These last, however, as well as _mental emotions_,
often relieve a paroxysm of headach, though they favour its return
afterwards.

3. A disordered state of the stomach, of which a vomiting of _bile_ may
be one symptom, is also to be ranked among the _occasional causes_ of
_headach_.

These _occasional causes_ do not in general produce their effect, unless
where a _predisposition_ to the disease exists. This predisposition is
often hereditary, or it may be acquired by long-protracted study and
habits of intoxication.--_Dr. Clutterbuck's Lectures on the Diseases of
the Nervous System_.

HYDROPHOBIA.

There is no cure for this disease when once the symptoms show
themselves. A variety of remedies have from time to time been advertised
by quacks. The "Ormskirk Medicine," at one time, was much in vogue; it
had its day, but it did not cure the disease, nor, as far as I know, did
it mitigate any of its symptoms. With regard to the affection of the
mind itself in this disease, it does not appear that the patients are
deprived of reason; some have merely, by the dint of resolution,
conquered the dread of water, though they never could conquer the
convulsive motions which the contact of liquids occasioned; while this
resolution has been of no avail, for the convulsions and other symptoms
increasing, have almost always destroyed the unhappy sufferers.
--_Abernethy's Lectures_.

EFFECTS OF KINDNESS ON THE SICK.

Under all circumstances, man is a poor and pitiable being, when stricken
down by disease. Sickened and subdued, his very lineaments have a voice
which calls for commiseration and assistance. Celsus says, that knowing
two physicians equally intelligent, he should prefer the one who was his
friend, for the obvious reason that he would feel a deeper interest in
his welfare. Kindness composes, and harshness disturbs the mind, and
each produces correspondent effects upon the body. A tone, a look, may
save or destroy life in extremely delicate cases. Whatever may be the
prognosi
s given to friends, in all febrile cases, the most confident and
consoling language about the ultimate recovery should be used to the
sick, as prophecies not unfrequently contribute to bring about the event
foretold, by making people feel, or think, or act, differently from what
they otherwise would have done. Again, in chronic cases, as time is
required for their cure, by explaining to the patient this fact, we
maintain his confidence, we keep his mind easy, and thus gain a fair
opportunity for the operation of regimen or remedies; in short, the
judicious physician, like the Roman general, Fabius, conquers through
delay, by cutting off the supplies, and wearing out the strength of the
enemy. In large cities, where the mind is so much overwrought in the
various schemes of private ambition, or of public business, anxiety is
very frequently the grand opposing circumstance to recovery; so that
while the causes which produced it are allowed to operate, mere medical
prescription is of no avail. The effects of this anxiety are visible in
the pallid face and wasted body. But if the patient be possessed of
philosophy enough to forego his harassing pursuits; if he have not, from
the contact and cares of the world, lost his relish for the simple and
sublime scenes of nature, a removal into the country is of the utmost
efficacy. The deformity and conflict of the moral world are exchanged
for the beauty and calm of the physical world; and surrounded by all the
poetry of earth and heaven, the mind regains its peace, and the health,
as if by magic, is perfectly restored.--_Dr. Armstrong's Lectures_.

DIET.

Experience has taught us that the nature of our food is not a matter of
indifference to the respiratory organs. Diseased lungs are exasperated
by a certain diet, and pacified by one of an opposite kind. The
celebrated diver, Mr. Spalding, observed, that whenever he used a diet
of animal food, or drank spirituous liquors, he consumed in a much
shorter period the oxygen of the atmospheric air in his diving-bell; and
he theref
ore, on such occasions, confined himself to vegetable diet. He
also found the same effect to arise from the use of fermented liquors,
and he accordingly restricted himself to the potation of simple water.
The truth of these results is confirmed by the habits of the Indian
pearl-divers, who always abstain from every alimentary stimulus previous
to their descent into the ocean.--_Dr. Paris on Diet._

 * * * * *

THE MONTHS

The season has now advanced to full maturity. The corn is yielding to
the sickle, the husbandmen,

 "By whose tough labours, and rough hands,"

our barns are stored with grain, are at their toils, and when nature is
despoiled of her riches and beauty, will, with glad and joyous heart,
celebrate the annual festival of

THE HARVEST HOME.

BY CORNELIUS WEBBE.

 Hark! the ripe and hoary rye
 Waving white and billowy,
 Gives a husky rustle, as
 Fitful breezes fluttering pass.
 See the brown and bending wheat,
 By its posture seems to meet
 The harvest's sickle, as it gleams
 Like the crescent moon in streams,
 Brown with shade and night that run
 Under shores and forests dun.

 Lusty Labour, with tired stoop,
 Levels low, at every swoop,
 Armfuls of ripe-coloured corn,
 Yellow as the hair of morn;
 And his helpers track him close,
 Laying it in even rows,
 On the furrow's stubbly ridge;
 Nearer to the poppied hedge.
 Some who tend on him that reaps
 Fastest, pile it into heaps;
 And the little gleaners follow
 Them again, with whoop and halloo
 When they find a hand of ears
 More than falls to their compeers.

 Ripening in the dog-star's ray,
 Some, too early mown, doth lay;
 Some in graceful shocks doth stand
 Nodding farewell to the land
 That did give it life and birth;
 Some is borne, with shout and mirth,
 Drooping o'er the groaning wain.
 Through the deep embowered lane;
 And the happy cottaged poor,
 Hail it, as it glooms their door,
 With a glad, unselfish cry,
 Though they'll buy it bitterly.

 And the old are in the sun,
 Seeing that the work is done
 As it was when age was young;
 And the 
harvest song is sung;
 And the quaint and jocund tale
 Takes the stint-key from the ale,
 And as free and fast it runs
 As a June rill from the sun's
 Dry and ever-drinking mouth:--
 Mirth doth alway feel a drowth.
 Butt and barrel ceaseless flow
 Fast as cans can come and go;
 One with emptied measures comes
 Drumming them with tuneful thumbs;
 One reels field-ward, not quite sober,
 With two cans of ripe October,
 Some of last year's brewing, kept
 Till the corn of this is reaped.

 Now 'tis eve, and done all labour,
 And to merry pipe and tabor,
 Or to some cracked viol strummed
 With vile skill, or table drummed
 To the tune of some brisk measure,
 Wont to stir the pulse to pleasure,
 Men and maidens timely beat
 The ringing ground with frolic feet;
 And the laugh and jest go round
 Till all mirth in noise is drowned.

_Literary Souvenir_.

 * * * * *

ARMORIAL BEARINGS AT CROYDON PALACE.

(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.)

Sir,--In No. 266 of the Mirror, _Sagittarius_ wishes to know the name of
the person whose armorial bearings are emblazoned at Croydon palace.

From the blazon he has given, it is rather difficult to find out; but I
should think they are meant for those of king Richard II. Impaled on the
dexter side with those of his patron saint, Edward the Confessor.
Bearings that may be seen in divers places at Westminster Hall, rebuilt
by that monarch.[1]

 [1] Vide MIRROR, p. 98, Vol. iii.

I have subjoined the _proper_ blazon of the arms, which is _azure_, a
cross patonce between _five_ martlets _or_, impaling France and England
quarterly, 1st. and 4th. azure three fleurs de lis. 2nd. _or_, 2nd and
3rd Gules, 3 lions passant guardant in pale, or.

The supporting of the arms with angels, &c. was a favourite device of
Richard, as may be seen in divers antiquarian and topographical works.

It is probable the hall of Croydon palace was built during the reign of
Richard, which will account for his arms being placed there.

I am, &c.

C. F.

 * * * * *

DEATH OF MR. CANNING.

The lamentable and sudden death 
of the Right Hon. George Canning has
produced a general sensation throughout this country. At the opening of
the present year our nation deplored the loss of a prince endeared to
the people by his honest worth--but a short interval has elapsed and
again the country is plunged in sorrow for the loss of one of its most
zealous supporters--one of its chiefest ornaments--one of its staunchest
friends--and one of its most eloquent and talented statesmen! The life
of the late George Canning furnishes much matter for meditation and
thought. From it much may be learnt. He was a genius, in the most
unlimited sense of the word; and his intellectual endowments were
commanding and imperative. Of humble origin he had to contend with
innumerable difficulties, consequent to his station in life,--and
although his talents, which were of the first order, befitted him for
the first rank in society, that rank he did not attain until the scene
of this world was about to be closed for ever from him. It may be said
of this eminent man, that he owed nothing to patronage--his _talents_
directed him to his elevated station, and to his intellectual
superiority homage was made,--not to the man.

But, in other respects, the loss of Mr. Canning is a national
bereavement. He was one of the master-spirits of the age. His very name
was distinguished--for he has added to the literature of his country--by
his writings and his eloquence he has stimulated the march of mind; he
has seconded the exertions of liberal friends to the improvements of the
uneducated, and he has patronized the useful as well as the fine arts,
philosophy and science, of his country. To expatiate at greater length
would be superfluous, as we have in another place recorded our humble
tribute to his general character.[2] We have now, therefore, merely to
put together the melancholy facts connected with his death, and which
will convey to another generation a just sense of the value, in our
time, attached to a noble and exalted genius. The just and elegant
laconism of Byron, by 
substituting the _past_ for the _present_ tense,
may now be adopted as a faithful and brief summary of what _was_ George
Canning.

 [2] Biographical Memoir of Mr. Canning, with a Portrait, MIRROR,
 Vol. iv.

"Canning _was_ a genius, almost an universal one:--an orator, a wit, a
poet, and a statesman."

 * * * * *

The king, with his usual quickness, was the first to perceive the
dangerous state of Mr. Canning. We understand, that almost immediately
after he had quitted him, on Monday, his majesty observed to sir William
Knighton, that Mr. Canning appeared very unwell, and that he was in
great alarm for him. On Tuesday, sir William repaired to town, at the
express command of his majesty, to see Mr. Canning. At the interview
with him, at the Treasury, Sir William made particular inquiries into
the state of his health. Mr. Canning was then troubled with a cough, and
he observed to Sir William that he almost felt as if he were an old man;
that he was much weakened; but had no idea of there being anything
dangerous in his condition, and that he trusted that rest and retirement
would set him to rights. Sir William sent Dr. Maton to Mr. Canning, and
on parting with him, he observed that, as he should not leave town until
Wednesday morning, he would call on him, at Chiswick, on his way home to
Windsor. Sir William found Mr. Canning in bed, at Chiswick. He asked him
if he felt any pain in his side? Mr. Canning answered he had felt a pain
in his side for some days, and on endeavouring to lie on his side, the
pain was so acute that he was unable to do so. Sir William then inquired
if he felt any pain in his shoulder? He said he had been for some time
affected by rheumatic pains in the shoulder. Sir William told him that
the pain did not arise from rheumatism, but from a diseased liver, and
he immediately sent for the three physicians, who remained with him, and
were to the last unremitting in their attentions.

The disease continued to make rapid progress, in spite of all that the
first medical skill could do to baffle it, 
watching every turn it took,
and applying, on the instant, every remedy likely to subdue its
virulence, and mitigate his sufferings.

On the following Sunday, August 5, bulletins were issued, stating that
Mr. Canning was in most imminent danger. The most painful interest was
excited in the public mind by subsequent announcements of his alarming
state, and on Wednesday morning, the following melancholy intelligence
reached town:--

_Chiswick, Wednesday, August_, 8, 1827, (A. M.)

Mr. Canning expired this morning, without pain, at ten minutes before
four o'clock.

 * * * * *

MISCELLANIES.

 * * * * *

BLACK BEARD.

There are few persons who reside on the Atlantic ocean and rivers of
North America who are not familiar with the name of Black Beard, whom
traditionary history represents as a pirate, who acquired immense wealth
in his predatory voyages, and was accustomed to bury his treasures in
the banks of creeks and rivers. For a period as low down as the American
revolution, it was common for the ignorant and credulous to dig along
these banks in search of hidden treasures; and impostors found an ample
basis in these current rumours for schemes of delusion. Black Beard,
though tradition says a great deal more of him than is true, was yet a
real person, who acquired no small fame by his maritime exploits during
the first part of the eighteenth century. Among many authentic and
recorded particulars concerning him, the following account of his death
may gratify curiosity:--

From the nature of Black Beard's position in a sloop of little draught
of water, on a coast abounding with creeks, and remarkable for the
number and intricacy of its shoals, with which he had made himself
intimately acquainted, it was deemed impossible to approach him in
vessels of any force. Two hired sloops were therefore manned from the
Pearl and Lime frigates, in the Chesapeake, and put under the command of
Lieutenant Maynard, with instructions to hunt down and destroy this
pirate wherever he should be found. On the 17th of November, in the y
ear
1718, this force sailed from James River, and in the evening of the 21st
came to an inlet in North Carolina, where Black Beard was discovered at
a distance, lying in wait for his prey. The sudden appearance of an
enemy, preparing to attack him, occasioned some surprise; but his sloop
mounting several guns, and being manned with twenty-five of his
desperate followers, he determined to make a resolute defence; and,
having prepared his vessel over night for action, sat down to his
bottle, stimulating his spirits to that pitch of frenzy by which only he
could rescue himself in a contest for his life. The navigation of the
inlet was so difficult, that Maynard's sloops were repeatedly grounded
in their approach, and the pirate, with his experience of the soundings,
possessed considerable advantage in manoeuvring, which enabled him for
some time to maintain a running fight. His vessel, however, in her turn,
having at length grounded, and the close engagement becoming now
inevitable, he reserved her guns to pour in a destructive fire on the
sloops as they advanced to board him. This he so successfully executed,
that twenty-nine men of Maynard's small number were either killed or
wounded by the first broadside, and one of the sloops for a time
disabled. But notwithstanding this severe loss, the lieutenant
persevered in his resolution to grapple with his enemy, or perish in the
attempt. Observing that his own sloop, which was still fit for action,
drew more water than the pirate's, he ordered all her ballast to be
thrown out, and, directing his men to conceal themselves between decks,
took the helm in person, and steered directly aboard of his antagonist,
who continued inextricably fixed on the shoal. This desperate wretch,
previously aware of his danger, and determined never to expiate his
crimes in the hands of justice, had posted one of his banditti, with a
lighted match, over his powder-magazine, to blow up his vessel in the
last extremity. Luckily in this design he was disappointed by his own
ardour and want of ci
rcumspection; for, as Maynard approached, having
begun the encounter at close quarters, by throwing upon his antagonist a
number of hand-grenadoes of his own composition, which produced only a
thick smoke, and conceiving that, from their destructive agency, the
sloop's deck had, been completely cleared, he leaped over her bows,
followed by twelve of his men, and advanced upon the lieutenant, who was
the only person then in view; but the men instantly springing up to the
relief of their commander, who was now furiously beset, and in imminent
danger of his life, a violent contest ensued. Black Beard, after seeing
the greater part of his men destroyed at his side, and receiving himself
repeated wounds, at length, stepping back to cock, a pistol, fainted
with the loss of blood, and expired on the spot. Maynard completed his
victory, by securing the remainder of these desperate wretches, who were
compelled to sue for mercy, and a short respite from a less honourable
death at the hands of the executioner.

ISLANDS PRODUCED BY INSECTS.

The whole group of the _Thousand Islands_, and indeed the greater part
of all those whose surfaces are flat, in the neighbourhood of the
equator, owe their origin to the labours of that order of marine worms
which Linnaeus has arranged under the name of _Zoophyta_. These little
animals, in a most surprising manner, construct their calcareous
habitations, under an infinite variety of forms, yet with that order and
regularity, each after its own manner, which to the minute inquirer, is
so discernable in every part of the creation. But, although the eye may
be convinced of the fact, it is difficult for the human mind to conceive
the possibility of insects so small being endued with the power, much
less of being furnished in their own bodies with the materials of
constructing the immense fabrics which, in almost every part of the
Eastern and Pacific Oceans lying between the tropics, are met with in
the shape of detached rocks, or reefs of great extent, just even with
the surface, or islands 
already clothed with plants, whose bases are
fixed at the bottom of the sea, several hundred feet in depth, where
light and heat, so very essential to animal life, if not excluded, are
sparingly received and feebly felt. Thousands of such rocks, and reefs,
and islands, are known to exist in the eastern ocean, within, and even
beyond, the limits of the tropics. The eastern coast of New Holland is
almost wholly girt with reefs and islands of coral rock, rising
perpendicularly from the bottom of the abyss. Captain Kent, of the
Buffalo, speaking of a coral reef of many miles in extent, on the
south-west coast of New Caledonia, observes, that "it is level with the
water's edge, and towards the sea, as steep to as a wall of a house;
that he sounded frequently within twice the ship's length of it with a
line of one hundred and fifty fathoms, or nine hundred feet, without
being able to reach the bottom." How wonderful, how inconceivable, that
such stupendous fabrics should rise into existence from the silent but
incessant, and almost imperceptible, labours of such insignificant
worms!

To buy books, as some do who make no use of them, only because they were
published by an eminent printer, is much as if a man should buy clothes
that did not fit him, only because they were made by some famous
tailor.--_Pope_.

 * * * * *

TO MY BROTHER, ON HIS LEAVING ENGLAND.

By The Author of "Ahab."

(_For the Mirror._)

 Wherever your fortune may lead you to roam,
 Forget not, young exile, the land of your home;
 Let it ever be present to memory's eye,
 'Tis the place where the bones of your fore-father's lie.
 Let the thought of it ever your comforter be,
 For no spot on this earth like your home can you see.

 The fields where you rove may be more fresh and fair,
 More splendid the sun, and more fragrant the air,
 More lovely the flowers, more refreshing the breeze,
 More tranquil the waters, more fruitful the trees.
 But home after all things--that dear little spot,
 Tho' it be but a desert can ne'er be forgot.

 In the thoughts of
 the day, and the dreams of the night,
 On your eyes like the kiss of your mother 'twill light,
 Then the mist will disperse which long absence has spread.
 And the paths you have trodden again you shall tread.
 Then farewell, young exile, wherever you roam,
 Oh! dear as your honour, your life, be your home.

J.H.S.

 * * * * *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

 * * * * *

ORDERS FOR HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS IN 1566.

 _Orders for Household Servantes; first deuised by John
 Haryngton, in the yeare 1566, and renewed by John Haryngton,
 sonne of the saide John, in the yeare 1592: The saide John, the
 sonne, being then high shrieve of the county of Somerset._

 Imprimis, That no servant bee absent from praier, at morning or
 euening, without a lawfull excuse, to be alleged within one day
 after, vppon paine to forfeit for eury tyme 2d.

 II. Item, That none swear any othe, vppon paine for every othe
 1d.

 III. Item, That no man leaue any doore open that he findeth
 shut, without theare bee cause, vppon paine for euery time 1d.

 IV. Item, That none of the men be in bed, from our Lady-day to
 Michaelmas, after 6 of the clock in the morning; nor out of his
 bed after 10 of the clock at night; nor, from Michaemas till
 our Lady-day, in bed after 7 in the morning, nor out after 9 at
 night, without reasonable cause, on paine of 2d.

 V. That no man's bed bee vnmade, nor fire or candle-box
 vnclean, after 8 of the clock in the morning, on paine of 1d.

 VI. Item, That no one commit any nuisance within either of the
 courts, vppon paine of 1d.

 VII. Item, That no man teach any of the children any vnhonest
 speeche, or evil word, or othe, on paine of 4d.

 VIII. Item, That no man waite at the table without a trencher
 in his hand, except it be vppon some good cause, on paine of
 Id.

 IX. Item, That no man appointed to waite at my table be absent
 that meale, without reasonable cause, on paine of 1d.

 X. Item, If any man breake a glasse, hee shall aunswer the
 price thereof out of his wages; and, if it bee not known who
 breake it, 
the buttler shall pay for it on paine of 12d.

 XI. Item, The table must bee couered halfe an houer before 11
 at dinner, and 6 at supper, or before, on paine of 2d.

 XII. Item, That meate bee readie at 11, or before, at dinner;
 and 6, or before, at supper, on paine of 6d.

 XIII. Item, That none be absent, without leaue or good cause,
 the whole day, or any part of it, on paine of 4d.

 XIV. Item, That no man strike his fellow, on paine of loss of
 seruice; nor reuile or threaten, or prouoke another to strike,
 on paine of 12d.

 XV. Item, That no man come to the kitchen without reasonable
 cause, on paine of 1d. and the cook likewyse to forfeit 1d.

 XVI. Item, That none toy with the maids, on paine of 4d.

 XVII. That no man weare foule shirt on Sunday, nor broken hose
 or shooes, or dublett without buttons, on paine of 1d.

 XVIII. Item, That, when any strainger goeth hence, the chamber
 be drest vp againe within 4 howrs after, on paine of 1d.

 XIX. Item, That the hall bee made cleane euery day, by eight in
 the winter, and seauen in the sommer, on paine of him that
 should do it to forfeit 1d.

 XX. That the cowrt-gate bee shutt each meale, and not opened
 during dinner and supper, without just cause, on paine the
 porter to forfet for euery time, 1d.

 XXI. Item, That all stayrs in the house, and other rooms that
 neede shall require, bee made cleane on Fryday after dinner, on
 paine of forfeyture of euery on whome it shall belong vnto, 3d.

 All which sommes shall be duly paide each quarter-day out of
 their wages, and bestowed on the poore, or other godly vse.

 * * * * *

THE NOVELIST.

No. CVII.

 * * * * *

THE WOOD KING.

_By Miss Emma Roberts_.

Already the pile of heaped-up fagots reached above the low roof of his
hut; but Carl Scheffler still continued lopping off branches, and
binding fresh bundles together, almost unconscious that the sun had set,
and that the labours of the day being over, the neighbouring peasants
were hastening to the skittle-ground to pass away an hour in sport. The
wood-c
utter's hut was perched upon an eminence a little out of the
public path; but he heard the merry songs of his comrades as they
proceeded gaily to the place of rendezvous, at the Golden Stag in the
village below. Many of his intimate acquaintance paused as they
approached the corner of the road nearest to his hut, and the wild wood
rang with their loud halloes; but the call, which in other times had
been echoed by the woodman's glad voice, was now unanswered; he busied
himself with his work; his brow darkened as the joyous sounds came over
his ear; he threw aside his hatchet, resumed, it again, and again
casting it from him, exclaimed, "Why, let them go, I will not carry this
chafed and wounded spirit to their revels; my hand is not steady enough
for a bowling-match; and since Linda will doubtless choose a richer
partner, I have no heart for the dance."

It was easy to perceive that Carl Scheffler was smarting under a recent
disappointment: he had borne up bravely against the misfortunes which,
from a state of comparative affluence, had reduced him to depend upon
his own arm for subsistence, fondly trusting that ere long his prospects
would amend; and that, at the return of the Count of Holberg to his
ancestorial dominions, he should obtain a forester's place, and be
enabled to claim the hand of Linda Von Kleist, to whom, in happier
times, he had been betrothed. But these dreams had vanished; the count's
bailiff having seen Linda, the flower of the hamlet, became his rival,
and consequently his enemy: he had bestowed the office promised to Carl
upon another; and Linda's father ungratefully withdrawing the consent
given when the lover's affairs were in a more flourishing condition, had
forbidden him the house. Buoyed up with the hope that Linda would remain
faithful, and by her unabated attachment console him under the pressure
of his calamities, Carl did not at first give way to despair; but Linda
was too obedient, or perchance too indifferent, to disobey her father's
commands. He sought her at the accustomed spot
--she came not, sent not:
he hovered round her residence, and if chance favoured him with a
glimpse of his beloved, it was only to add to his misery, for she
withdrew hastily from his sight. A rumour of the intended marriage of
his perjured mistress reached his ears, and, struck to the soul, he
endeavoured, by manual labour, to exhaust his strength and banish the
recollection of his misery. He toiled all day in feverish desperation;
and now that there was no more to be done, sat down to ponder over his
altered prospects. The bailiff possessed the ear of his master, and it
was useless to hope that the count would repair the injustice committed
by so trusted a servant. The situation which above all others he had
coveted, which would have given him the free range of the forest, the
jovial hunter's life which suited his daring spirit, delighting in the
perils of the chase, and, above all, a home for Linda, was lost, and for
ever; henceforward he must relinquish all expectation of regaining the
station which the misfortunes that had brought his parents to the grave
had deprived him of, and be content to earn a sordid meal by bending his
back to burthens befitting the brute creation alone; to hew wood, and to
bear it to the neighbouring towns; to delve the ground at the bidding of
a master, and to perform the offices of a menial hireling. "At least not
here," cried the wretched young man, "not in the face of all my former
friends; there is a refuge left where I may hide my sorrows and my
wrongs. Fair earth, and thou fair sky, I gaze upon you for the last
time; buried from the face of day in the centre of the deepest mine,
I'll spend the remnant of my life unpitied and unknown." Determined to
execute this resolution on the instant, Carl hastily collected such
parts of his slender property as were portable; and having completed his
arrangements, prepared to cross the Brocken, and shaped his course
towards the Rammelsburg. The last rich gleam of crimson had faded from
the sky; but there was light enough in the summer nigh
t to guide him on
his way. A few bright and beautiful stars gemmed the wide concave of
heaven; the air was soft and balmy, scarcely agitating the leaves of the
forest trees; the fragrance-weeping limes gave out their richest scent,
and the gentle gush of fountains, and the tricklings of the mountain
springs, came in music on the ear; and had the traveller been more at
ease, the calm and tranquil scene must have diffused its soothing
influence over his heart. Carl, disregarding every thing save his own
melancholy destiny, strode along almost choked by bitter thought, and so
little heedful of the road, that he soon became involved in thickets
whose paths were unknown to him; he looked up to the heavens, and
shaping his course by one of the stars, was somewhat surprised to find
himself still involved in the impenetrable mazes of the wood. Compelled
to give more attention than heretofore to his route, he once or twice
thought that he distinguished a human figure moving through the darkness
of the forest. At first, not disposed to fall in with a companion, he
remained silent, lest the person, whoever he might be, should choose to
enter into conversation with him; then not quite certain whether he was
right in his conjecture--for upon casting a second glance upon the
object which attracted him, he more than once discovered it to be some
stunted trunk or fantastic tree--he became anxious to ascertain whether
he was in reality, alone, or if some other midnight wanderer trod the
waste, and he looked narrowly around; all was still, silent, and
solitary; and fancying that he had been deceived by the flitting shadows
of the night, he was again relapsing into his former reverie, when he
became aware of the presence of a man dressed in the garb of a forester,
and having his cap wreathed with a garland of green leaves, who stood
close at his side. Carl's tongue moved to utter a salutation, but the
words stuck in his throat, an indescribable sensation of horror thrilled
through his frame; tales of the demons of the Hartz rushed 
upon his
memory--but he recovered instantly from the sudden shock. The desperate
state of his fortune gave him courage, and, looking up, he was surprised
at the consternation which the stranger had occasioned: he was a person
of ordinary appearance, who, accosting him frankly, exclaimed, "Ho,
comrade, thou art, I see, bent on the same errand as myself; but
wherefore dost thou seek the treasures of the Nibelungen without the
protecting wreath?"--"The treasures of the Nibelungen?" returned Carl;
"I have indeed heard of such a thing, and that it was hidden in the
bosom of the Hartz by a princess of the olden time; but I never was mad
enough to think of so wild a chase as a search after riches, which has
baffled the wisest of our ancestors, must surely prove."--"Belike then,"
replied the forester, "thou art well to do in the world, and therefore
needest not to replenish thy wallets with gold,--travelling perchance to
take possession of some rich inheritance."--"No, by St. Roelas," cried
the woodcutter, "thou hast guessed wide of the mark. I am going to hide
my poverty in the mine of Rammelsburg."--"The mine of Rammelsburg!"
echoed the stranger, and laughed scornfully, so that the deep woods rang
with the sound; and Carl feeling his old sensations return as the
fiendish merriment resounded through the wilderness, again gazed
stedfastly in his companion's face, but he read nothing there to justify
his suspicions: the fiery eye lost its lustre; the lip its curl; and,
gazing benignantly upon the forlorn wood-cutter, he continued his
speech, saying, "Then prithee take the advice of one who knows these
forests, and all that they contain. Here are materials in abundance for
our garland; advance forward, and fear not the issue;"--and, gathering
leaves from the boughs of trees of a species unknown to his new
acquaintance, he twined them into a wreath, and placed the sylvan diadem
on Carl's head. The instant that he felt the light pressure on his
temples, all his fears vanished; and he followed his guide, conversing
pleasantly
 through wide avenues and over broad glades of fresh turf,
which seemed to be laid out like a royal chase, till they came to a wall
of rock resembling the Hahnen Klippers, and entering through an arch, a
grey moss-covered tower arose in the distance. The ponderous doors were
wide open; and Carl advancing, found himself in a large hall well
lighted, and showing abundance of treasure scattered abroad in all
directions. He was conscious that he had lost his companion, but he
seemed no longer to require his instruction; and casting down his own
worthless burthen, he laded himself with the riches that courted his
touch. The adventurer was soon supplied with a sufficient quantity of
gold and jewels to satisfy his most unbounded wishes; and turning from
the spot with a light heart, he sped merrily along. The country round
about seemed strange to him; but on repassing the rocky ledge, a brisk
wind suddenly springing up blew off his cap. The morning air was cold,
and Carl, hastening to regain his head-gear, discovered that the wreath
had disappeared; and, as if awakening from a dream, he found himself
surrounded by familiar objects; he felt, however, the weight of the load
upon his back, and though panting with the fatigue it occasioned, made
the best of his way home. On approaching the hut, a low murmur struck on
his ear. He paused; listened attentively; and distinguishing a female
voice, he rushed forward, and in the next moment clasped Linda in his
arms. She had fled from the persecutions of the bailiff to seek shelter
in Carl's straw-roofed hut; and the now happy lovers, as they surveyed
the treasures which had been snatched from the Nibelungen, agreed that
they owed their good fortune to Riebezhahl the Wood King, who sometimes
taking pity upon the frail and feeble denizens of earth, pointed out to
their wondering eyes the inexhaustible riches of which he was the
acknowledged guardian.

_London Weekly Review_.

 * * * * *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

 * * * * *

DRAFTS ON LA FITTE.

COOKE.

Only upon one occasion 
did Cooke deviate from his resolution of not
apologizing to a provincial assembly, and that was at Liverpool. A
previous breach of decorum was visited one night by the fury of an
offended audience; confusion was at its height; the people were the
actors, and Cooke the audience: yet the sturdy tragedian remained
callous to the bursts of indignation which were heard around him, until
destruction became the order of the day; lamps _lighted_ on the stage;
benches betokened _mobility_; _pedal_ applications were made _forte_ to
the _piano_; _basely violated_ was the repository of the _base viol_;
and the property of poor Knight the manager gave every sign of that
being its last appearance. What popular rage had failed to produce,
consideration for the fortunes of his friend effected. At his
entreaties, the Caledonian was induced to advance to the front of the
stage (never was there a more _moving_ scene than that before it);
silence was obtained, and he condescended to express his sorrow for the
state in which some nights previously he had presented himself: adding,
"that _he_ never _before_ felt so keenly the _degradation_ of _his_
situation." Equivocal as was the mode of extenuation, the audience
allied to _Mersey_ accorded the _mercy_ it possessed, and was or
appeared to be, satisfied; but not so the actor, and he as fully as
instantly avenged what he deemed his misplaced submission. As he
concluded his address, he turned to the gratified but yet trembling
manager, and (in allusion to the large share in the slave-trade then
imputed to Liverpool) with that peculiarity of undertone he possessed,
which could be distinctly heard throughout the largest theatre although
pronounced as a whisper, exclaimed, "There's not a stone in the walls of
Liverpool which has not been cemented by the _bluid_ of Africans." Then,
casting one of his Shylock glances of hatred and contempt on the mute
and astounded audience, majestically left the stage.

On the first night of his performance at the Boston theatre, Richard was
the part he had
 adopted; and so strongly had he fortified himself for
the kingly task, that he deemed himself the very monarch he was destined
to enact. The theatre was crowded in every part: expectation was on
tiptoe: anticipation as to his person, voice, and manner, was announced
by the sibilating "I guess" heard around, and "pretty considerable"
agitation prevailed. The orchestra had begun and ceased, unheeded or
unheard; nor could one of Sir Thomas Lethbridge's best cut and dried
have produced less effect amongst the "irreclaimables." The curtain
rose, and amidst thundering plaudits the welcome stranger advanced, in
angles, to the front of the stage, and, as Sir Pertinax has it, "booed
and booed and booed;" but greeting could not endure for ever: well
justified curiosity assumed its station, and at length silence, almost
breathless silence, reigned around, such as attended Irving in his
Zoar, or Canning when he lately produced his budget. The hospitable
clamour was over; but instead of "Now is the winter of our discontent
made glorious summer by this sun of York" being given, Cooke, in a
respectful but decided tone, requested that "God save the King" might be
played by the orchestra prior to the commencement of the play. The
proposal at first but excited mockery and laughter, which, however, gave
way to far different feelings, on Cooke firmly and composedly declaring,
that, until his request was complied with, he was determined not to
proceed; and, should it be absolutely refused, he was resolved to
retire. The fury of the Bostonians was at its height: menace,
accompanied by every vituperative epithet rage could suggest, was
lavished on the actor; but he kept his station, calm and secure as his
own native island set in the stormy seas, until anger gradually subsided
through very weariness; and every effort having been ineffectually used
to wean "_the tyrant_" from his purpose, the political antipathies of
the audience began to yield to their theatrical taste; and, after much
argument and delay, the unpalatable demand was re
luctantly assented to.
Cooke, however, whose nature it was, when opposed, only to become more
exigent, was not himself appeased; for, as the notes "unpleasing to a
_Yankee_ ear" were sounded, with a majestic wave of his hand he silenced
the unwilling music, and, "Standing, if you please," was as
dictatorially as fearlessly pronounced, to the consternation of the
audience. So much had, however, already been accorded, that it was not
deemed matter of much moment to concede the rest: and however
ungracefully the attitude of respect was assumed, the national hymn was
performed amidst grimace and muttering; Cooke beating time with his
foot,--nodding significantly and satisfactorily at "Confound their
politics;" and occasionally taking a pinch of snuff, as, in his royal
robes, he triumphantly contemplated the astonished and indignant
audience. It ended:--"Richard was himself again," and "_Now_ is the
winter of our _discontent_ made glorious summer" was given with equal
emphasis, feeling, and effect.

At the time that _greater_ performer, the elephant, made his appearance
on the boards, his own _board_ became a subject of no trifling
consideration with the managers, particularly as the African had taken a
predilection for _rum_, which the new actor used to quaff with
extraordinary zest. On one occasion Cooke was missing from a morning
rehearsal, and all had been some time in waiting for the tragedian,
when the messenger whom Kerable despatched in search of him, returned
grinning to the green-room. "Where is Mr. Cooke, sir?" demanded Kemble.
"He is below _breakfasting_ with the _elephant_, sir!" was the reply.

It was too much for Cooke, after having so frequently disappointed full
houses, to be obliged to play to an empty theatre. It was like playing
whist with _dummy_. However, towards the close of the O. P. war, (which,
by the way, excited more the attention of the Parisians than the
national contest in which we were engaged,) the public had adopted the
plan of never commencing operations until half-price, to the inju
ry of
the manager's purse. It was during the earlier acts of "The Man of the
World," that Cooke, in performing to "a beggarly account of empty
boxes," was addressed by one of the actors, in accordance with the
scene, in a whisper; when the _elevated_ comedian, casting a glance
around, bitterly observed, "Speak out: there need be no secret. _No one
hears us._" Poor Cooke could not plead in excuse what an actor did on
being hissed for too _sober_ a representation of a _drunken_ part,
"Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon: but it is really the _first
time_ I ever was _intoxicated_."

His death was in singular accordance with his _taste_ through life. He
sought the banks of the _Brandywine_, and whether it were that the
composition of its stream so little responded to its title as to prey
upon his _spirits_, or from some other cause, there he "_drank_ his
last."

DICKEY SUETT.

I met with him once in a house situated on the very confines of _Beef
and Law_; on the line of demarcation between the theatres and Lincoln's
Inn; a sort of _debateable_ ground between the spouters and ranters of
the stage, and the eaters of commons, by either of which party it was
frequented. Around a large table in the parlour sat a motley group.
There were ragged wits, well-dressed students, new-fledged actors, a
hackney writer or so, an Irish barrister named Shuter, a Scotch
reporter, and a hodge-podge of most discordant materials congregated
under the amalgamating power of Suett, who seemed, by the incongruity of
his dress and diversified manner, to have studied the various tastes of
those he swayed, and to be the comprehensive representative of each of
the strange beings he looked upon, with all of whom he would
occasionally identify himself with so much ease, that it were hard to
say whether it was the result of labour or of tact, of calculation, or
the mere impulse of mother-wit. The _ropes of his face_, when drawn
_taught_, peculiarly commanded the attention of the Caledonian, while
the sly and humorous glance of his half-shut eye 
was acknowledged by the
Hibernian to whom it was addressed; the _snow drift_ of powder which lay
in patches on his long, straight hair, agreed with the taste of his
dramatic nursling; the far-extended cambric of white frill imposed upon
the students, while the unseemly rents in his coat at once compensated
to the wits for what there might be of gaudy or gay in his outward man.
We were received with equal courtesy and ceremony by the president; and
were just seated, when a ballet-dancer of Drury-lane entered. As he was
a Frenchman, it became a question of _national_ politeness: and Dicky
_chestered_ him to his dexter! and, as was befitting, condescended to
address him. "I am proud, sir," said Suett, with the formality of _Black
Rod_ himself, "to do the honours of my _country_ to the _representative_
of a nation which held my _master_ Garrick in peculiar respect. He was a
great actor, sir; a wonderful man! Your Lekain, or any other _Cain_,
could not come up to him, for he was _Able_, Pardon the pun. Oh,
la!--but he was vain, sir; vain as a peacock; it could not be of his
person. Had he been, as Richard has it, _'a marvellous proper man'_ like
myself, one might have said something. He used to say, I was too _lean_
for _Suett_. Oh, dear. _A votre sante, Monsieur,_ happy to see you on
this side the Channel. Never been to France yet, although in the
_Straits_ great part of my life, and not unfrequently _half seas
over_.--Well, sir, to return to Garrick. There was that man 'frae the
north,' who wrote the History of England and Roderick Random,--the
latter a true story, they say;--he who challenged Campbell the
barrister, for calling him _names_, _To bias_ the cause. Well, sir, Davy
refused one of his farces; but the wily Caledonian _pocketed_ the
affront, in coolly observing, 'that he had nearly completed another
volume of his history, and hoped he might be permitted to name _the
British Roscius_, the pride of his country, and all that sort of thing.'
It was a palpable hit, sir--the thing was settled--the _manager
manag
ed_; and _Smelfungus_ retired, _without_ his manuscript, half sorry
he had not added _another_ scene to his farce. Well, sir, the story got
wind, and some days after Davy dined with a lawyer who had interested
himself vainly for a friend's comedy with him, when, in the course of
conversation, the barrister observed to Davy, before a large company,
that he had nearly compiled another volume of The Statutes _at large_
(would they were all _at large_), and hoped he might be permitted to
name _the British Roscius, the pride of his country._ There was a roar
at the expense of Garrick. 'The galled jade' winced terribly:--he was
touchy as tinder, sir:--never was _Digest_ so ill-_digested_.'"

It was when the meteor-like popularity of little Betty was at its height
that poor Suett fell ill, at what he termed his _town_ residence (a
second-floor in a low street), and the pigmy Roscius, having eaten too
much fruit, kept all London in intense agony for his fate at the same
moment. Bulletins were exhibited in Southampton-row several times
a-day, signed by numerous physicians. Had he died, how posterity would
have been befooled! Suett was then _actually_ dying, yet would he have
his joke, and his last moments were cheered by the horse-laugh of the
rabble assembled to _spell_ the bulletin suspended to "the second-floor
bell," attested by the _mark_ of the old woman who attended him. "You
shall be buried in Saint Paul's," said a friend. "Oh, la!" was the dying
ejaculation of the comedian.

_New Monthly Magazine._

 * * * * *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

 * * * * *

AMERICAN TRAVELLING.

June 7th, at three in the morning, the steam-boat (which was of immense
size, and on the high pressure system) arrived at Albany, having come
one hundred and sixty miles in seventeen hours, including stoppages. I
found that, unluckily, the mail-coach had left the place just before our
arrival, so I booked myself in an accommodation-stage, which was to
reach Boston (a distance of one hundred and sixty miles) in three days,
a
nd entered the wretched-looking vehicle, with a heavy heart, at eight
o'clock.... The machine in which I travelled was slow and crowded. The
proprietor had undertaken to let us rest at night on the road; but we
found that his notions of rest were very imperfect, and that his night
was one of the polar regions.--Having partaken of a wretched dinner at
Sand Lake, we arrived about one in the morning at Cheshire, where we
were to sleep.

By dint of most active exertion, I secured a bed to myself, the narrow
dimensions of which precluded the possibility of participation, and
plunged into it with all possible haste, as there was not a moment to
be lost. Secure in "single blessedness," I was incredibly amused at the
compliments of nocturnal arrangement which passed around me among my
Yankee companions. They were nine in number, and occupied by triplets
the three other beds which the room contained. Whether it was with a
view of preserving their linen unrumpled, or of enjoying greater space,
I cannot tell; but certain it is, that they divested themselves of
clothing to a degree not generally practised in Europe. A spirit of
accommodation appeared to prevail; and it seemed to be a matter of
indifference whether to occupy the lateral portions of the bed, or the
warmer central position, except in one instance, where a gentleman
protested against being placed next to the wall, as he was in the habit
of chewing tobacco in his sleep!

At four o'clock in the morning we again set off, and, as much rain had
fell in the night, the roads were in a dreadful state. The coach company
now consisted of nine passengers inside, one on the top, (which, from
its convex form, is a very precarious situation,) and three on the box,
besides the coachman, who sat on the knees of the unfortunate middle
man,--an uneasy burden, considering the intense heat of the weather.

It matters little to the American driver where he sits; he is indeed, in
all respects, a far different personage from his great-coated prototype
in England. He is in general extr
emely dexterous in the art of driving,
though his costume is of a most grotesque description. Figure to
yourself a slipshod sloven, dressed in a striped calico jacket and an
old straw hat, alternately arranging the fragile harness of his horses,
and springing again upon his box with surprising agility; careless of
the bones of his passengers, and confident in his skill and resources,
he scruples not frequently to gallop his coach over corderoy roads, (so
called from being formed of the trunks of trees laid transversely,) or
dash it round corners, and through holes that would appal the heart of
the stoutest English coachman, however elated by gin, or irritated by
opposition. I was once whirled along one of these roads, when the
leathers, (barbarous substitutes for springs,) which supported the
carriage gave way with a sudden shock. The undaunted driver instantly
sprang from his box, tore a stake from a rail fence by the road-side,
laid it across under the body of the coach, and was off again before I
properly recovered the use of my senses, which were completely
bewildered by the jolting I had undergone. I can compare it to nothing
but the butt of Regulus, without the nails. When the lash and butt-end
of the whip fail him, he does not scruple to use his foot, as the
situation of his seat allows the application of it to his wheelers.

We dined at New Salem at six, and arrived at Petersham, where we were to
sleep, at twelve o'clock at night, having been twenty hours coming sixty
miles.

Though tired and disgusted with my journey, the prospect of a short
respite from this state of purgatory was embittered during the last few
miles by alarm at the idea of passing the night with one, if not two, of
my fellow-travellers; and I internally resolved rather to sleep upon the
floor.

After a desperate struggle, I succeeded, to my great joy, in securing a
bed for myself, not, however, without undergoing a severe objurgation
from the landlady, who could not understand such unaccommodating
selfishness. Short were our slumbers. 
By the rigid order of the
proprietor, we were turned out the next morning at three, and pursued
our journey.--_De Roos's Personal Narrative._

KANGAROO WAGGERY.

One of the largest tame kangaroos I have seen in the country is
domiciled here, and a mischievous wag he is, creeping and snuffing
cautiously toward a stranger, with such an innocently expressive
countenance, that roguery could never be surmised to exist under
it--when, having obtained as he thinks a sufficient introduction, he
claps his forepaws on your shoulders, (as if to caress you,) and raising
himself suddenly upon his tail, administers such a well-put push with
his hind-legs, that it is two to one but he drives you heels over head!
This is all done in what he considers facetious play, with a view to
giving you a hint to examine your pockets, and see what _bon-bons_ you
have got for him, as he munches cakes and comfits with epicurean _gout_;
and if the door be ajar, he will gravely take his station behind your
chair at meal-time, like a lackey, giving you an admonitory kick every
now and then, if you fail to help him as well as yourself.--_Two Years
in New South Wales._

A MAGNIFICENT WATERFALL.

My swarthy guides, although this was unquestionably the first time that
they had ever led a traveller to view the remarkable scenery of their
country, evinced a degree of tact, as _ciceroni_, as well as natural
feeling of the picturesque, that equally pleased and surprised me.
Having forewarned me that this was not yet the waterfall, they now
pioneered the way for about a mile farther along the rocks, some of them
keeping near, and continually cautioning me to look to my feet, as a
single false step might precipitate me into the raging abyss of waters,
the tumult of which seemed to shake even the solid rocks around us.

At length we halted, as before, and the next moment I was led to a
projecting rock, where a scene burst upon me, far surpassing my most
sanguine expectations. The whole water of the river (except what escapes
by the subsidiary channel we ha
d crossed, and by a similar one on the
north side) being previously confined to a bed of scarcely one hundred
feet in breadth, descends at once in a magnificent cascade of full four
hundred feet in height. I stood upon a cliff nearly level with the top
of the fall, and directly in front of it. The beams of the evening sun
fell upon the cascade, and occasioned a most splendid rainbow; while the
vapoury mists arising from the broken waters, the bright green woods
that hung from the surrounding cliffs, the astounding roar of the
waterfall, and the tumultuous boiling and whirling of the stream below,
striving to escape along its deep, dark, and narrow, path, formed
altogether a combination of beauty and grandeur, such as I never before
witnessed. As I gazed on this stupendous stream, I felt as if in a
dream. The sublimity of nature drowned all apprehensions of danger; and,
after a short pause, I hastily left the spot where I stood to gain a
nearer view from a cliff that impended over the foaming gulf. I had just
reached this station, when I felt myself grasped all at once by four
Korannas, who simultaneously seized hold of me by the arms and legs. My
first impression was, that they were going to hurl me over the
precipice; but it was a momentary thought, and it wronged the friendly
savages. They are themselves a timid race, and they were alarmed, lest
my temerity should lead me into danger. They hurried me back from the
brink, and then explained their motive, and asked my forgiveness. I was
not ungrateful for their care, though somewhat annoyed by their
officiousness.--_Thompson's Travels in Southern Africa._

SETTING IN OF AN INDIAN MONSOON.

The shades of evening approached as we reached the ground, and just as
the encampment was completed the atmosphere grew suddenly dark, the heat
became oppressive, and an unusual stillness presaged the immediate
setting in of the monsoon. The whole appearance of nature resembled
those solemn preludes to earthquakes and hurricanes in the West Indies,
from which the east in genera
l is providentially free. We were allowed
very little time for conjecture; in a few minutes the heavy clouds burst
over us.... I witnessed seventeen monsoons in India, but this exceeded
them all in its awful appearance and dreadful effects.

Encamped in a low situation, on the borders of a lake formed to collect
the surrounding water, we found ourselves in a few hours in a liquid
plain. The tent-pins giving way, in a loose soil, the tents fell down,
and left the whole army exposed to the contending elements.

It requires a lively imagination to conceive the situation of a hundred
thousand human beings of every description, with more than two hundred
thousand elephants, camels, horses, and oxen, suddenly overwhelmed by
this dreadful storm, in a strange country, without any knowledge of high
or low ground; the whole being covered by an immense lake, and
surrounded by thick darkness, which prevented our distinguishing a
single object, except such as the vivid glare of lightning displayed in
horrible forms. No language can describe the wreck of a large encampment
thus instantaneously destroyed and covered with water, amid the cries of
old men and helpless women, terrified by the piercing shrieks of their
expiring children, unable to afford them relief. During this dreadful
night more than two hundred persons and three thousand cattle perished,
and the morning dawn exhibited a shocking spectacle.--_Forbes's Oriental
Memoirs._

GRACE OF CARRIAGE.

This requires not only a perfect freedom of motion, but also a firmness
of step, or constant steady bearing of the centre of gravity over the
base. It is usually possessed by those who live in the country, and
according to nature, as it is called, and who take much and varied
exercise. What a contrast is there between the gait of the active
mountaineer, rejoicing in the consciousness of perfect nature, and of
the mechanic or shopkeeper, whose life is spent in the cell of his
trade, and whose body soon receives a shape and air that correspond to
this!--and in the softer sex, w
hat a contrast is there, between her who
recalls to us the fabled Diana of old, and that other, who has scarcely
trodden but on smooth pavements or carpets, and who, under any new
circumstances, carries her person as awkwardly as something to the
management of which she is not accustomed.

_Arnott's Elements of Physics._

THE CAVALRY SCHOOL OF ST. GERMAINS.

Bonaparte frequently visited the school of infantry at St. Cyr, reviewed
the cadets, and gave them cold collations in the park. But he had never
visited the school of cavalry since its establishment, of which we were
very jealous, and did all in our power to attract him. Whenever he
hunted, the cadets were in grand parade on the parterre, crying, _"Vive
l'Empereur!"_ with all their young energies; he held his hat raised as
he passed them; but that was all we could gain. Wise people whispered
that he never would go whilst they were so evidently expecting him; that
he liked to keep them always on the alert; it was good for discipline.
The general took another plan, and once allowed no sign of life about
the castle when the emperor passed--it was like a deserted place. But it
did not take neither; he passed, as if there were no castle there. It
was _desesperant._ When, lo! the next day but one after I had spoken to
him, he suddenly galloped into the court of the castle, and the cry of
the sentinel, _"L'Empereur!"_ was the first notice they had of it. He
examined into every thing. All were in undress, all at work, and this
was what he wanted. In the military-schools the cadets got
ammunition-bread, and lived like well-fed soldiers; but there was great
outcry in the circles of Paris against the bread of the school of St.
Germain's. Ladies complained that their sons were poisoned by it; the
emperor thought it was all nicety, and said no man was fit to be an
officer who could not eat ammunition-bread. However, being there, he
asked for a loaf, which was brought, and he saw it was villanous trash,
composed of pease, beans, rye, potatoes, and every thing that would ma
ke
flour or meal, instead of good brown wheaten flour. He tore the loaf in
two in a rage, and dashed it against the wall, and there it stuck like a
piece of mortar, to the great annoyance of those whose duty it was to
have attended to this. He ordered the baker to be called, and made him
look at it _sticking_. The man was in great terror first at the
emperor's anger, but, taking heart, he begged his majesty not to take
his contract from him, and he would give good bread in future; at which
the emperor broke into a royal and imperial passion, and threatened to
send him to the galleys; but, suddenly turning round, he said, "Yes, he
would allow him to keep his contract, on condition that, as long as it
lasted, he should furnish the school with good white household bread,
_(pain de menage,)_ such as was sold in the bakers' shops in Paris; that
he might choose that, or lose his contract;" and the baker thankfully
promised to furnish good white bread in future, at the same
price.--_Appendix to the 9th volume of Scott's Life of Napoleon._

CENTRE OF GRAVITY, IN REFERENCE TO SEA-SICKNESS.

Man requiring so strictly to maintain his perpendicularity, that is, to
keep the centre of gravity always over the support of his body,
ascertains the required position in various ways, but chiefly by the
perpendicularity or known position of things about him. Vertigo, and
sickness commonly called sea-sickness, because it most frequently occurs
at sea, are the consequences of depriving him of his standards of
comparison, or of disturbing them.

Hence on shipboard, where the lines of the masts, windows, furniture,
&c. are constantly changing, sickness, vertigo, and other affections of
the same class are common to persons unaccustomed to ships. Many
experience similar effects in carriages, and in swings, or on looking
from a lofty precipice, where known objects being distant, and viewed
under a new aspect, are not so readily recognised: also in walking on a
wall or roof, in looking directly up to a roof, or to the stars in the
zenith, be
cause, then, all standards disappear: on walking into a round
room, where there are no perpendicular lines of light and shade, as when
the walls and roof are covered with a spotted paper without regular
arrangement of spot:--on turning round, as in waltzing, or on a wheel;
because the eye is not then allowed to rest on the standards, &c.

At night, or by blind people, standards belonging to the sense of touch
are used; and it is because on board ship, the standards both of sight
and of touch are lost, that the effect is so very remarkable.

But sea-sickness also partly depends on the irregular pressure of the
bowels against the diaphragm, as their inertia or weight varies with the
rising and falling of the ship.

From the nature of sea-sickness, as discovered in all these facts, it is
seen why persons unaccustomed to the motion of a ship, often find relief
in keeping their eyes directed to the fixed shore, where it is visible;
or in lying down on their backs and shutting their eyes; or in taking
such a dose of exhilarating drink as shall diminish their sensibility to
all objects of external sense.

_Arnott's Elements of Physics._

 * * * * *

FINE ARTS.

 * * * * *

THE BRITISH INSTITUTION.

The following gratifying report of the directors has just been
made:--"The funds of the institution consist at the present time of
12,500l. 3 per cent, consols. It is hoped that these funds may be
considerably increased by the exhibition of the beautiful collection of
pictures now on view at the gallery, which last year attracted such
general notice, and which his majesty, ever anxious to forward the
purposes of the institution, has again allowed the directors to offer
for the inspection of the public. The directors, finding that the two
institutions which have been established for the relief of decayed
artists, were not only founded upon the most humane principles, but
conducted in the most beneficial manner, have applied in the course of
the present year, 400l, to the purposes of those institutions; viz.
200l. to the Artist
s' Benevolent Fund, and 200l to the Artists'
General Benevolent Institution." The report next mentions two pictures
to be painted on the subjects of Lord Howe's and Lord St. Vincent's
victories, by Mr. Briggs and Mr. Jones, to be placed, "as well as those
which were exhibited this year in the gallery in commemoration of other
naval victories, in the hall of Greenwich hospital." It also confirms
the gift of Mr. Hilton's and Mr. Northcote's pictures to the new church
at Pimlico, built by Mr. Hakewill, and to the chapel built by Mr.
Cockerell, in the upper part of Regent-street.

 * * * * *

ARTS AND SCIENCES.

 * * * * *

MUSICAL COMPOSITION.

A very valuable musical manuscript, by Guillaume de Machault, who was
_valet de chambre_ to Phillippe-le-Bel, in 1307, has been discovered in
the royal library at Paris. It contains several French and Latin
anthems, ballads, &c.; and concludes with a mass, which is supposed to
have been sung at the coronation of Charles V., in 1364; and which
proves, at that time they were acquainted with the art of composition in
four parts.

NOISY FISH.

M. Cuvier lately read a short paper to the French academy on the species
of fish called _pogonias_, in which he particularly adverted to the
noise by which they make themselves heard, even under water. However
difficult the explanation of this phenomenon, there can be no doubt of
its existence; the evidence of it adduced by M. Cuvier being perfectly
satisfactory. The silurus, a large and ravenous fish, which abounds in
the Danube, gives daily proof of it.

GEOLOGY.

A treatise on the great geological question, whether the continents now
inhabited, have or have not been repeatedly submerged in the sea, has
lately been read to the Academie des Sciences, by M. Constant Prevost.
M. Prevost maintains, contrary to the generally received opinion, that
there has been but one great inundation of the earth; and that the
various remains of plants, animals, &c., which have given rise to the
supposition of successive inundations, have been floated to th
e places
in which they are occasionally found.

 * * * * *

THE GATHERER.

 "I am but a _Gatherer_ and disposer of other men's
 stuff."--Wotton.

 * * * * *

A PUZZLE FOR THE CURIOUS.

At a town in Gloucestershire the relatives as below, recently surrounded
one dinner-table:--One great-grandfather, two grandfathers, one
grandmother, three fathers, two mothers, four children, three
grand-children, ore great-grandchild, three sisters, one brother, two
husbands, two wives, one mother-in-law, one father-in-law, two
brothers-in-law, three sisters-in-law, one son-in-law, two
daughters-in-law, two uncles, three aunts, one nephew, two nieces, and
two cousins. The whole party consisted of seven persons only.

 * * * * *

THE ROMANCE OF WAR.

A French soldier, who accompanied the armies of Russia, concealed a
small treasure at the entrance of a village near Wilna, with a view of
taking it with him on his return. After the defeat of Moscow he was made
prisoner, and sent to Siberia, and only recovered his liberty at the end
of last year. On reaching Wilna he remembered his hidden treasure, and
after tracing out the spot where he had hid it, he went to take it away.
What was his astonishment to find, in the place of his money, a small
tin box, containing a letter addressed to him, in which a commercial
house was mentioned at Nancy, where he might receive the sum buried,
with interest, since the year 1812. The soldier supposed this was all a
hoax; he went, however, to the house pointed out, where he received his
capital, with twelve years' interest. With this sum he established a
small business at Nancy, which enables him to live comfortably; but he
has never been able, though he has taken some pains, to ascertain how
his money was taken away and restored to him.

 * * * * *

 Two lovely ladies dwell at ----,
 And each a-churching goes;
 Emma goes there _to close her eyes_,
 And Jane to _eye her clothes_.

 * * * * *

The death of Stanislaus, king of Poland, was occasioned in a singular
manner. Being much addicted to smoking, 
he generally every day finished
many pipes. In knocking out the ashes he set fire to his dressing-gown.
As no one was near him, the flames had surrounded him, when the officer
on guard, hearing his cries, ran to his assistance, and extinguished the
fire. He might have survived, but a singular circumstance accompanied
the accident. He had been devout during the last years of his life, and,
as a penance for his sins, had worn a girdle with points on the inside;
these became heated, and being pressed into his body while the flames
were extinguishing, caused a number of wounds, the discharge from which,
at his period of life, proved too much for his debilitated constitution.

 * * * * *

Professor Porson was often in pecuniary difficulties. On one occasion he
came with a dejected air to a friend, and said he had been walking
through the streets of London all the morning, thinking how strange it
was that not one of all the crowds he met should know as much about
Greek tragic verse as himself, and yet that he could not turn his
knowledge into a hundred pounds. In these moments he often talked of
retiring forever to the wilds of America, where he formed a plan of
living in solitary happiness, without a book or a friend.

 * * * * *

One evening, at the Literary Fund Club, Mr. Incledon having sung with
great effect Mr. T. Dibdin's ballad of "May we ne'er want a friend, or a
bottle to give him," an elderly gentleman whispered in Mr. T. Dibdin's
ear, "Ah! my dear sir, these are the true things of the old school; what
a pity it is no one living is found to write such ditties now!"

 * * * * *

_Printed and published by J LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset House,)
and sold by all Newsmen and Booksellers._

***
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson,
Steve Schulze and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent postpaid, on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | We will Mail Free |
 | |
 | A COVER |
 | |
 | Lettered & Stamped, with New Title Page |
 | |
 | FOR BINDING |
 | |
 | FIRST VOLUME, |
 | |
 | On Receipt of 50 Cents, |
 | |
 | OR THE |
 | |
 | TITLE PAGE ALONE, FREE, |
 | |
 | On application to |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades, as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | Sole Agents for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

 * * * * *

Vol II. No. 27

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,

By ORPHEUS C. KERR,

Continued in this Number.

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bound Volume No. 1. |
 | |
 | The first volume of PUNCHINELLO--the |
 | only first-class, original, illustrated, |
 | humorous and satirical weekly paper |
 | published in this country--ending with |
 | No. 26, September 24, 1870, |
 | |
 | Bound in Extra Cloth, |
 | 
|
 | will be ready for delivery on Oct. 1, |
 | 1870. |
 | |
 | PRICE $2.50. |
 | |
 | Sent postpaid to any part of the United |
 | States on receipt of price. |
 | |
 | A copy of the paper for one year, |
 | from October 1st, No. 27, and the |
 | Bound Volume, (the latter prepaid,) |
 | will be sent to any subscriber for $5.50. |
 | |
 | Three copies for one year, and three |
 | Bound Volumes, with an extra copy of |
 | Bound Volume, to any person sending |
 | us three subscriptions for $16.50. |
 | |
 | One copy of paper for one year, |
 | with a fine chromo premium, |
 | for- - - - - $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, mailed free .10 |
 | |
 | Back numbers can always be supplied, |
 | as the paper is electrotyped. |
 | |
 | Book canvassers will find this volume |
 | a |
 | |
 | |
 | Very Saleable Book. |
 | |
 | |
 | Orders supplied at a very liberal |
 | discount. |
 | |
 | All remittances should be made in |
 | Post Office orders. |
 | |
 | Canvassers wanted for the paper |
 | everywhere. Send for our Special |
 | Circular. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | |
 | Punchinello Publishing Co., |
 | |
 | 83 NASSAU ST., N. Y. |
 | |
 | P.O. Box No. 2783. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO |
 | |
 | JOHN NICKINSON, |
 | |
 | ROOM No. 4, |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, N. Y. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for August, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEYILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 |
 Bowling Green Savings-Bank, |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent Interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_. |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_. |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents_. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A NEW AND MUCH-NEEDED BOOK. |
 | |
 | MATERNITY |
 | |
 | A POPULAR TREATISE |
 | |
 | For Young Wives and Mothers |
 | |
 | BY T. S. VERDI, A. M., M. D., OF WASHINGTON, D. C. |
 | |
 | Dr. VERDI is a well-known and successful Homoeopathic |
 | Practitioner, of thorough scientific training and large |
 | experience. His book has arisen from a want felt in his own |
 | practice, as a Monitor to Young Wives, a Guide to Young |
 | Mothers, and an assistant to the family physician. It deals |
 | skilfully, sensibly, and delicately with the perplexities of |
 | early married life, as connected with the holy duties of |
 | Maternity, giving information which women must have, either |
 | in conversation with physicians, or from such a source as |
 | this--evidently the preferable mode of learning, for a |
 | delicate and sensitive woman. Plain and intelligible, but |
 | without offense to the most fastidious taste, the style of |
 | this book must commend it to careful perusal. It treats of |
 | the needs, dangers, and alleviations of the time of travail; |
 | and gives extended detailed instructions for the care and |
 | medical treatment of infants and children throughout all the |
 | perils of early life. |
 | |
 | As a Mother's Manual, it will hare a large sale, and as a |
 | book of special and reliable information on very important |
 | topics, it will be heartily welcomed. |
 | |
 | Handsomely printed on laid paper: bevelled boards, extra |
 | English 
cloth, 12mo., 450 pages. Price $2.25. |
 | |
 | _For sale by all Booksellers, or will be sent post-paid on |
 | receipt of the price by_ |
 | |
 | J. B. FORD & CO., Publishers, |
 | 39 Park Row, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL, |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2845.] |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | The only Journal of its kind in America!! |
 | |
 | The American Chemist: |
 | |
 | A MONTHLY JOURNAL |
 | OF |
 | |
 | THEORETICAL, ANALYTICAL AND TECHNICAL |
 | CHEMISTRY |
 | |
 | DEVOTED ESPECIALLY TO AMERICAN INTERESTS. |
 | |
 | EDITED BY |
 | |
 | Chas. F. Chandler, Ph. D., & W. H. Chandler. |
 | |
 | The Proprietors and publishers of THE AMERICAN CHEMIST, |
 | having purchased the subscription list and stock of the |
 | American reprint of THE CHEMICAL NEWS, have decided to |
 | advance the interests of American Chemical Science by the |
 | publication of a Journal which shall be a medium of |
 | communication for all practical, thinking experimenting, and |
 | manufacturing scientific men throughout the country. |
 | |
 | The columns of THE AMERICAN CHEMIST are open for the |
 | reception of original articles from any part of the country, |
 | subject to approval of the editor. Letters of inquiry on any |
 | points of interest within the scope of the Journal will |
 | receive prompt attention. |
 | |
 | THE AMERICAN CHEMIST |
 | |
 | Is a Journal of especial interest to |
 | |
 | SCHOOLS AND MEN OF SCIENCE, TO COLLEGES, |
 | APOTHECARIES, DRUGGISTS, PHYSICIANS |
 | ASSAYERS, DYERS, P
HOTOGRAPHERS, |
 | MANUFACTURERS, |
 | |
 | And all concerned in scientific pursuits. |
 | |
 | Subscription, $5.00 per annum, in advance; |
 | 50 cts. per number. Specimen copies, 25 cts. |
 | |
 | Address WILLIAM BALDWIN & CO., |
 | |
 | Publishers and Proprietors. |
 | |
 | 434 Broome Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing |
 | Houses, can have the same forwarded by inclosing two |
 | stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2783.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

PREFACE

"HALF a year, half a year, half a year onward," has PUNCHINELLO advanced
since he wafted his first number to the four quarters of the globe.

His road has not been a very easy one to travel.

Bad characters lurked behind the fences, from which they would sometimes
take a sneak shot at the Showman as he passed. These fellows were
awfully bad shots, though, never so much as hitting the van in which the
show travels. PUNCHINELLO'S return fire always set the scamps
a-scampering, and all they had for their pains was the loss of their
ammunition, and the discovery that the row kicked up by them had
attracted crowds of people to the spot, so that PUNCHINEL
LO'S show was
capitally advertised by their noise.

PUNCHINELLO'S First Volume, then, is a substantial fact. It is an
entirely new, original, and complete article, which no family should be
without.

Read what the New York _Moon that Shines for All_ says about it:

"Put a head on yourself by reading PUNCHINELLO, Vol. 1. It is by far the
best tonic bitters in the market. It cured the editor of this paper of a
very malignant attack, (made by himself on PUNCHINELLO,) after three
applications."

Several gentle critics predicted an early death for PUNCHINELLO on
account of the buff color selected by him for his full dress costume.
Ha! ha! gentlemen, many a blow falls harmless on the wearer of a
buff-jerkin. As the old poet, whose name we have forgotten, might have
said, had he been in the humor--"He who will cuff it, Eke should buff
it,"--a maxim to which PUNCHINELLO gives his cordial adhesion.

And now comes PUNCHINELLO to the beginning of his Second Volume,
encouraged by the success of his First.

If Vol. I of PUNCHINELLO was a _Chassepot_, (and it _did_ make some
havoc in the ranks of the enemy,) Vol. II is intended to be a
_mitrailleuse_. It will be so arranged as to combine total annihilation
with bewitching music. For instance, by turning one of the cranks by
which it is worked, PUNCHINELLO will be able to project a shower of such
mortiferous missiles against all abettors of crime and vice, all quacks,
political and social, all corrupt officials, all Congress, (except the
Right Party,) all torpid fogies and peddlers of red tape, all humbugs of
every size and shape, in fact, as will speedily reduce them to ashes.
Then, by skilfully manipulating the other crank, he can produce from it
strains of such mellifluous harmony that the very telegraph-poles will
throng around him, as erstwhile did the trees of the forest around
ORPHEUS, and tender their services for the transmission of his melting
music to all the beautiful places on Earth. It is hardly necessary to
say that "Hail Columbia" is the very first tune on the c
ylinder of
PUNCHINELLO'S musical _mitrailleuse_.

With his mind's eye, (an apparatus expressly constructed for and fitted
to his mental organization by a renowned necromancer,) PUNCHINELLO sees
his Public surging towards him, and grasping with outstretched hands at
the showers of _bon bons_ with which he plentifully supplies them from
an inexhaustible casket.

Among them are thousands of familiar forms, and these are mostly in the
front. After these come several thousands of new forms, all pressing
forward upon the heels of the others with an eagerness that augurs for
PUNCHINELLO Vol II a tremendous and unparalleled success. Each of these
good people carries four dollars ($4) in his right hand, which he waves
at PUNCHINELLO, who affably accepts the greenbacks from him when within
proper distance, and then, dipping his pen in ink without a drop of gall
in it, books the donor for a year's subscription in advance.

As for party, PUNCHINELLO knows but one party--and that is the Right
Party. Stirring times are before us. The Right Party is not going to lie
down and sleep while the times are stirring. Nor is PUNCHINELLO. When
anything that interests the Right Party has got to be stirred,
PUNCHINELLO will be on hand. He has been so long used to starring it,
that he makes light of stirring it. He can stir with a red-hot poker and
he can stir with a feather,--"You pays your money and you takes your
choice."

And now, having stirred the spirit within him to a demonstrative pitch,
PUNCHINELLO shies his cocked hat into space, and calls upon his Public
to give three rousing cheers for the

RIGHT PARTY.

 * * * * *

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Office of the Librarian of
Congress at Washington.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XX.

AN ESCAPE.

The bewildered Flowerpot had no sooner gained her own room, enjoyed her
agitated expression of face in the mirror, and tried four differently
 ribbon-bows upon
 her collar in succession, than the thought of
becoming Mr. BUMSTEAD'S bride lost the charm of its first wild novelty,
and became utterly ridiculous. He was a man of commanding stature, which
his linen "duster" made appear still more long; the dark circles around
his eyes would disappear in time, and he had an abusive way of referring
to women which made him inexpressibly grand to women as a true
poet-soul; but would it be safe, would it be religiously right, for a
young girl, not yet conscious of her own full power of annual monetary
expenditure, to blindly risk her necessary expenses for life upon one
whom the cost of a single imported bonnet, in the contingency of a
General European War, might plunge into inextricable pecuniary
embarrassment? Possibly, the General European War might not occur in an
ordinary married-lifetime, as France was no longer in a condition to
menace England, Russia would be wary about provoking the new Prussian
giant, and Austria and Italy were not likely soon to forget their last
military misadventures; yet, while all the great American journals had,
for the last twenty years, published daily editorials, by young writers
from the country, to show that such a War could not possibly be averted
longer than about the day after tomorrow, would it be judicious for a
young girl to marry as though that War were absolutely impossible? No!
Her woman's heart sternly reiterated the pitilessly negative; and, as
the Ritualistic organist had plainly evinced an earnest intention to let
no foreign military complications prevent her marriage with him, she
felt that her only safety from his matrimonial violence must be sought
in flight.

With whom, though, could she take refuge? If she went to MAGNOLIA
PENDRAGON, all her dearest schoolmates would say, that they had always
loved her, despite her great faults, yet could not disguise from
themselves that she seemed at last to be fairly running after Miss
PENDRAGON'S brother. Besides, Mr. BUMSTEAD, offended by the seeming want
of confidence in him evinced by
 her flight, would, probably, take
measures publicly to identify MAGNOLIA'S alpaca garment with the
covering of his lost umbrella, and thus direct new suspicion against a
sister and brother already bothered almost into hysterics.

During the last few weeks, an attack of dyspepsia had laid the
foundation of a mind in the Flowerpot, as it generally does in other
young female American boarding-school thinkers, and she was now capable
of that subtle line of reasoning which is the great commendation of her
sex to a recognized perfect intellectual equality with man. Once
decided, by her apprehension of a General European War, against marriage
with J. BUMSTEAD, she took a rather irritable view of that too
attractive devotional musician, and inferred, from his not being wealthy
enough to stand the test of possible transatlantic hostilities, that he
must, himself, have killed EDWIN DROOD. His umbrella, it was well known,
had been present at that fatal Christmas dinner; and a thoughtless
insult offered to it, even by his nephew, might have made a demon of
him. Suppose that EDWIN, upon returning to the dining-room that night,
after his temporary exercise in the open air with MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON,
had found his uncle, flushed with cloves, endeavoring to force a social
glass of lemon tea upon the umbrella, under the impression that it was a
person, and had unthinkingly accused him thereat of being momentarily
unsettled in his faculties? Probably, then, hot words would have passed
between them; each telling the other that he would have a nice headache
in the morning and find it impossible not to look very sleepy even if he
fixed his hair ever so elaborately. Blows might have followed: the
uncle, in his anger, hewing the nephew limb from limb with the carving
knife from the table, and subsequently carrying away the remains to the
Pond and there casting them in. Suppose, in his natural excitement, the
uncle had hurriedly used the umbrella, opened and held downward, to
carry the remains in; and, after coming home again, and snatc
hing a nap
under the table, had forgotten all about it, and thus been ever since
inconsolable for his alpaca loss? As the young orphan argued thus
exhaustively to herself, the extreme probability of her suppositions
made her more and more frenzied to fly instantly beyond the reach of one
who, in the event of a General European War, would not be a husband whom
her head could approve.

After penning a hasty farewell note to Miss CAROWTHERS, to the effect
that urgent military reasons obliged her to see her guardian at once,
FLORA lost no time in packing a small leather satchel for travel. Two
bottles of hair oil, a jar of glycerine, one of cold cream, two boxes of
powder, a package of extra back-hair, a phial of belladonna, a
camel's-hair brush for the eyebrows, a rouge-saucer for pinking the
nails, four flasks of perfumery, a depilatory in a small flagon, and
some tooth paste, were the only articles she could pause to collect for
her precipitate escape; and, with them in the satchel on her arm, and a
bonnet and shawl hurriedly thrown on, she stole away down-stairs, and
thus from the house.

Hastening to the Roach House, from whence started an omnibus for the
ferry, she was quickly rattling out of Bumsteadville in a vehicle
remarkable for the great number and variety of noises it could make when
maddened into motion by a span of equine rivals in an immemorial
walking-match.

"Now, BONNER," she said to the driver, taking leave of him at the
ferry-boat, "be sure and let Miss CAROWTHERS know that you saw me safely
off, and that I was not a bit more tired than if I had walked all the
way."

Blushing with pleasure at the implied compliment to his equipage from
such lips, the skilled horseman had not the heart to object to the
wildly mutilated fragment of currency with which his fare had been paid,
and went back to where his steeds were taking turns in holding each
other up, as happy a man as ever lost money by the change in woman.

Reaching the city, Miss POTTS was promptly worshiped by a hackman of
marked conversational
 powers, who, whip in hand, assured her that his
carriage was widely celebrated under the titles of the "Rocking Chair,"
the "Old Shoe," and the "Glider," on account of its incredible ease of
motion; and that, owing to its exquisite abbreviation of travel to the
emotions, those who rode in it had actually been known to dispute that
they had ridden even half the distance for which they were charged. Did
he know where Mr. DIBBLE, the lawyer, lived, in Nassau Street, near
Fulton? If she meant lawyer DIBBLE, near Fulton Street, in Nassau, next
door but one to the second house below, and directly opposite the
building across the way, there was just one span of buckskin horses in
the city that could take a carriage built expressly for ladies to that
place, as naturally as though it were a stable. It was a place that
he--the hackman--always associated with his own mother, because he was
so familiar with it in childhood, and had often thought of driving to it
blindfolded for a wager.

Proud to learn that her guardian was so well known in the great city,
and delighted that she had met a charioteer so minutely familiar with
his house of business, FLORA stepped readily into the providential hack,
which thereupon instantly began Rocking-Chair-ing, Old-Shoe-ing, and
Gliding. Any one of these celebrated processes, by itself, might have
been desirable; but their indiscriminate and impetuous combination in
the present case gave the Flowerpot a confused impression that her whole
ride was a startling series of incessant sharp turns around obdurate
street corners, and kept her plunging about like an early young
Protestant tossed in a Romish blanket. Instinctively holding her satchel
aloft, to save its fragile contents from fracture, she rocked, shoed and
glided all over the interior of the vehicle, without hope of gaining
breath enough for even one scream, until, nearly unconscious, and, with
her bonnet driven half-way into her chignon, she was helped out by the
hackman at her guardian's door.

"I am dying!" she groaned.

"Then ple
ase remember me in your will, to the extent of two dollars,"
returned the hackman with much humor. "You're only a little sea-sick,
miss; as often happens to people in humble circumstances when they ride
in a kerridge for the first time."

Still panting, Miss POTTS paid and discharged this friendly man, and,
weariedly entering the building, followed the signs up-stairs to her
guardian's office.

After knocking several times at the right door without reply, she turned
the knob, and entered so softly that the venerable lawyer was not
aroused from the slumber into which he had fallen in his chair by the
window. With a copy of _Putnam's Magazine_ still grasped in his honest
right hand, good Mr. DIBBLE slept like a drugged person; nor could the
young girl awaken him until, by a happy inspiration, she had snatched
away the monthly and cast it through the casement.

"Am I dreaming?" exclaimed the aged man, when thus suddenly rescued from
his deadly lethargy at last "Is that you, my dear; or are you your late
mother?"

"I am your ridiculously unhappy ward," answered the Flowerpot,
tremulously. "Oh, poor, dear, absurd EDDY!"

"And you have come here all alone?"

"Yes; and to escape being married to EDDY'S perfectly hateful uncle, who
has the same as ordered me to become his utterly disgusted bride. Oh,
why is it, why is it, that I must be thus persecuted by young men
without property! Why is it that perfectly horrid madmen on salaries are
allowed to claim me as their own!"

"My dear," cried the old lawyer, leading her to a chair, and striving to
speak soothingly, "if Mr. BUMSTEAD desires to marry you he must indeed
be insane. Such a man ought really to be confined," he continued, pacing
thoughtfully up and down the room. "This must have been the idea that
was already turning his brain when--bless my soul!--he actually
intimated, first, that I, and then, that Mr. SIMPSON, had killed his
nephew!"

"He thinks, now, that I, or MAGNOLIA PENDRAGON, may have done it,--the
hateful creature!" said FLORA, passionately.

"I see, I se
e," assented Mr. DIBBLE, nodding. "When he has you in his
head, my dear, he himself must clearly be out of it. You shall stay here
and take tea with me, and then I will take you to FRENCH'S Hotel for
your accommodation during the night."

It was a sight to see him tenderly help her off with her bonnet; and
suggestive to hear him say, that if a man could only take off his brains
as easily as a woman hers, what a relief it would be to him
occasionally. It was curious to see him peep into her bottle-filled
satchel, with an old man's freedom; and to hear him audibly wonder
thereat, whether, after all, men were any more addicted than women to
the social glass when they wanted to put a better face on affairs. And,
after the waiter bringing him toast and tea from a neighboring
restaurant had brought an additional slice and cup for the guest, it was
pleasant to behold him smiling across the office-table at that guest,
and encouraging her to eat as much as she would if a member of his sex
were not looking.

"It must be absurdly ridiculous to stay here all alone, as you do, sir,"
observed FLORA.

"But I am not always alone," answered Mr. DIBBLE. "My clerk, Mr.
BLADAMS, now taking a vacation in the country, is generally here though,
to be sure, I may lose him before long. He's turned literary."

"How perfectly frightful!" said Miss POTTS.

"He has set up for a genius, my child, and is now engaged upon a great
American novel. Discontented with the law, he is giving great attention
to this; but Free Trade will not, I am afraid, allow any American
publisher to bring it out."

"Free Trade?" repeated FLORA.

"Yes, my dear, Free Trade; that is, while American publishers can steal
foreign novels for nothing, they are not going to pay anything for
native fiction."

Yawning behind her hand, the Flowerpot murmured something about Free
Trade being positively absurd, and her guardian went on:

"Nevertheless, Mr. BLADAMS is going on-with his work, which he calls
'The Amateur Detective;' and if it ever does come out you shall have a
copy
.--But, by the by," added the lawyer, suddenly, "you have not yet
fully described to me the interview in which poor Mr. EDWIN'S uncle
offered to become your husband."

She gave him a full history of the Ritualistic organist's handsome offer
to her of his H. and H.; adding her own final decision in the matter as
precipitated by the possibility of a General European war; and Mr.
DIBBLE heard the whole with an air of studious attention.

"Although I have certainly no particular reason for befriending Mr.
BUMSTEAD," said he, reflectively, "I shall take measures to keep him
from you. Now come with me to FRENCH'S Hotel. To-morrow I will call
there for you, you know, and then, perhaps, you may be taken to see your
friend, Miss PENDRAGON."

Having obtained for his ward a room in the hotel named, and seen her
safely to its shelter, the good old lawyer visited the bar-room of the
establishment, for the purpose of ascertaining whether any evil-disposed
person could get in through that way for the disturbance of his fair
charge. After which he departed for his home in Gowanus.

(_To be Continued.)

 * * * * *

MOTTO FOR ALL GOOD CUBANS.--"The labor we delight in physics (S)pain."

 * * * * *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

Punctually as announced, the FIFTH AVENUE THEATRE has re-opened. It has
been improved by the addition of several private boxes that remind one
of the square pews in old-fashioned churches, (by the way, why do
Puseyites object to pews?) and by the erection of a hydrant near the
conductor's seat, so that when the audience can endure STOEPEL'S music
no longer, they can turn on the water and drown him and his long-winded
orchestra. This latter improvement meets with our hearty approval, and
we earnestly hope to see it put to the excellent use for which it is
designed without further delay. Manager DALY is now offering to his
patrons the new comedy of _Man and Wife_. The old-fashioned play of that
name, which is daily acted everywhere about us, is usually more of a
tragedy than a comedy, but Mr. DALY'S _Man and Wife_ is
 comedy, farce,
muscular christianity, and paralysis pleasantly mingled together. As
thus:

ACT I.--GEOFFREY DELAMAYN _and his brother are seen conversing in an
arbor. (Don't let the printer imagine that I mean Ann Arbor. It was bad
enough in_ WILKIE COLLINS _to banish his dramatis personae to Scotland;
but he was nevertheless too humane to send them to Michigan_.)

JULIUS DELAMAYN. "GEOFFREY, you really must do something. The unmannerly
people who are just coming into the theatre make such a noise that I
couldn't be heard if I took the trouble to preach to you for an hour, so
I won't attempt to make my meaning any clearer."

GEOFFREY. "I will or I won't, I forget which. However, the audience
can't hear. We've got a pretty good house here to-night I wonder if my
muscles really show to any extent. Here comes LADY LUNDIE and her
friends."

LADY LUNDIE. "I choose everybody to play croquet on my side. The rest
may play on BLANCHE'S side. Miss SYLVESTER, you look as if you could not
stand alone. Therefore I order you to play."

ANNIE SYLVESTER. "Madame, I will. GEOFFREY, meet me here in ten minutes,
or you'll be sorry for it." (Exit everybody. ANNIE and GEOFFREY
returning on tip-toe.)

ANNIE. "You must marry me this afternoon. Meet me at the inn on the
moor."

GEOFFREY. "I won't cross the moor with you. DESDEMONA foolishly crossed
the Moor, and came to grief in consequence. I take warning by her. I
hate you, but I suppose I must marry you, or you'll sell all my letters
to the _Sun_."--(_They go out to be married_.)

ARNOLD _enters and makes love to_ BLANCHE. SIR PATRICK _does the comic
business with_ LEWIS'S _usual humor_. (_What a nice man_ LEWIS _must be
for girls to quarrel with; he "makes up" so nicely--this is a joke_.)
LADY LUNDIE _enters and announces that_ ANNIE _is no longer her
governess, that misguided person having thrown up her situation, for the
irrational reason that it was an interesting one, and having fled in the
silence of the after-dinner hour. Shrieks of horror from the young
ladies, who desist fr
om knocking their croquet-balls into the orchestra
and the proscenium boxes; and triumphant falling of a new act-drop_.
STOEPEL, _having thought of a sweet passage for the fife, in a Chinese
opera, plays it uninterruptedly for forty-five minutes. A deaf old
gentleman approvingly remarks that this is really classical music_.

ACT II.--_A storm at the inn on the Moor_. Miss SYLVESTER _waits for
her_ GEOFFREY _and her tea. Enter_ ARNOLD.

ARNOLD. " GEOFFREY can't come, so he has sent me. I know your situation,
and shall have to feel for you if it gets much darker and they don't
bring candles. That is, if I'm to shake hands with you. I have told
everybody here that you are my wife. Let's have a little game of
seven-up, and pass the time profitably."

ANNIE. "Oh, villain (I mean GEOFFREY,) you have de-ser-er-erted me. Oh,
rash young person, (I mean you, ARNOLD,) I'm inclined to think that
you've married me by Scotch law, without having meant it. If so, you'll
have to go to America and see BEECHER about a divorce." (_Curtain
subsequently falls, and_ STOEPEL _orders the big drum to beat for an
hour, while the musicians take advantage of the noise to tune their
instruments.) Deaf old gentleman remarks again that he does like_
WAGNER'S _music. Half the audience hold their ears, while the other half
flee madly away until the entr' acte is over_.

ACT III.--GEOFFREY _boxes with his trainer, and slings Indian clubs and
wooden dumb-bells_.

GEOFFREY. "There! Thank heaven I didn't break anything. The scenery, the
footlights, or a bloodvessel will get broken before the week is out,
however, if this prize-ring business isn't cut out. Here comes ARNOLD."

ARNOLD. "How's Miss SYLVESTER?"

GEOFFREY. "If you say anything more about her, I'll put a head on you.
She's your wife. You're a married man."

ARNOLD. "_Married_! You infamous editor of a two cent daily paper; I
deny it. (_Curtain again falls, and_ STOEPEL _plays the entire opera of_
ERNANI _for two hours. Deaf old gentleman remarks that music is the_
STOEPEL _entertainment at
 this theatre, and that he really likes it. The
rest of the audience look at him with horror, as though he were a sort
of aggravated and superfluous cannibal_.)

ACT IV.--_Sir_ PATRICK _proves that_ GEOFFREY _is married to_ ANNIE,
_and that_ ARNOLD _isn't_. GEOFFREY _takes his weeping wife home with
him. Everybody finds out that_ GEOFFREY _is an enormous liar and an
unmitigated blackguard. Through the open windows are seen the editors of
the Sun and the Free Press, each determined to be the first to offer_
GEOFFREY _a place on the staff of his respective journal. The curtain
falls and_ STOEPEL _directs each member of the orchestra to play the
tune that he may like best. After three hours of this sort of thing a
humane person in the audience brings in a saw and begins to file it. The
rest of the audience are thereupon gently lulled to sleep by the music
of the file--so soft and soothing does it sound by contrast with_
STOEPEL'S _demoniac orchestra._

ACT V.--ANNIE, _in the midst of misery and a gorgeous silk dress with
lace trimmings, is seen going to bed in her best clothes, and without
taking her hair down--this being the well-known custom among fashionably
dressed girls_. GEOFFREY _enters and attempts to strangle her, but she
is awakened by the considerate forethought of a dumb woman, who loudly
calls her, and_ GEOFFREY _conveniently lies down and dies of paralysis.
All the rest of the dramatis personae enter, and indulge in exclamations
of joy. The curtain falls for the last time, and_ STOEPEL _is removed
under the protection of a strong platoon of policemen, to the secret
abode where_ DALY _keeps him hidden during the day from the wrath of an
outraged public_.

And the undersigned goes home to breakfast--it being now nearly 6
A.M.--reflecting upon the beauty of the theatre, the neatness of the
scenery, the general ability of the actors, the capabilities of the
play, (after Mr. DALY shall have cut it down to a reasonable length,)
the pluck of the young manager, and the unredeemed badness of the
orchestra, as i
t is conducted by Mr. STOEPEL. Tell me, gentle DALY,
tell; why in the name of all that is intelligent, do you let STOEPEL
transform each _entr' acte_ at your theatre into a prolonged purgatory,
by the villainous way in which he plays the most execrable music, for
the most intolerable periods of time?

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

L. N. IN PRUSSIA.

 Yes, I am quite upset;
 In fact, I'm dizzy yet
 With all that rapid riding, day and night;
 But still, two things I see;
 They've made an end of Me,
 And blown the Empire higher than a kite!

 Yes, here I am, at last--
 And all my dreams are past.
 didn't think to enter Prussia thus!
 Confound that "Vorwarts" man!
 When first the war began
 He seemed as logy as an omnibus.

 Faugh! smell the Sweitzer Kaise!
 The same in every place, eh?
 How these big Germans love an ugly stench!
 My! what a taste they've got
 For articles that rot;
 And can it be, they live so near the French?

 I'm in a pretty nest!
 And, worse than all the rest,
 Is thinking how I got here; there's the rub.
 When I have mused awhile
 On all my luck, so vile,
 I almost wish they'd hit me with a club!

 It's very well to say--
 "I might have won the day,
 If things had only gone this way or that;"
 I should have _made_ them go,
 And let these Germans know
 That _they_ must go, too! or be cut down flat.

 They didn't go, it seems;
 Except 'twas in my dreams!
 And, consequently, I must bid good bye
 To titles, power and state,
 Which I enjoyed of late,
 And curse my dismal fate--poor Louis and I!

 * * * * *

THE PLYMOUTH ROCK.

The fact of his having relinquished (at the imperative demand of
society) his weekly visits to the watering places, need lead no one to
believe that Mr. PUNCHINELLO does not like a little fresh air. And
surely a half a day or so by the seaside need jeopardize no one's social
standing if the thing is not repeated too often. At least so thought Mr.
P., and he determined, one fine morning last week, that he would hurry
up his business as fast as possible, and take a trip on Col. FISK'S
s
teamboat to Sandy Hook. A man calling with a bundle of puns detained
him so long that he found that he would not be able to reach the 11 A.M.
boat without he made unusual haste.

Rushing into the street, therefore, he hailed a passing hack, and
ordered the driver to take him, as quickly as possible, to the Plymouth
Rock.

When the carriage stopped, and the man opened the door, Mr. P. rubbed
his eyes, for he had fallen into a doze, on the way, and sprang hastily
out.

But what a sight met his gaze!

Before him was the hack, covered with mud and dust, and the horses in a
position indicating utter exhaustion: to his right lay a huge
unsymmetrical stone, while behind him rolled the heaving waters of Cape
Cod bay! The man had mistaken his directions, and had driven him to JOHN
CARVER'S old Plymouth Rock in Massachusetts, instead of JAMES FISK Jr.'s
steamboat at Pier 28, North River.

"There's the rock, yer honor," said the man, pointing to the mis-shapen
stone, "and an awful time I've had a drivin' yer honor to it."

"How long have you been, coming here?" asked the astounded Mr. P.

"Nigh on to three days, yer honor, and I drove as fast as I could,
hopin' to get back by the Sunday in time for the Centhral Park, but I
had to stop sometimes for feed and wather, and it's no use me whippin'
up afther all, for sorra the good them horses will be for the Centhral
Park on the Sunday."

"And how much do I owe you for all this?" asked Mr. P.

"Well, sir," said the man, "I won't charge your honor nothin' for the
feed and my victuals, for I'd had to have found them if yer hadn't a
hired me; and I'll only charge ye three dollars a hour, for sure yer
honor never give me the least thruble, slapeing there as swate as an
infant all the time, and that'll be jist two hundred and four dollars,
and if yet honor could give me a thrifle besides to drink yer health,
I'd be obliged to yer honor."

Mr. P. gazed alternately at the man, the carriage, the horses, and the
rock, and then he paid the driver two hundred and four dollars and
twenty-fi
ve cents. The worthy Milesian pocketed the money and declared
his intention of proceeding to Boston, which was only about forty miles
away, and taking the railroad for New York

"If I don't, ye see, yer honor, I'll never get back in time for the
Sunday; and the horses will be restin' in the cars."

As the man made his preparations and departed, Mr. P. stood and watched
him until he slowly faded out of sight.

When he had entirely disappeared, Mr. P. sat down upon the rock and
reflected. Now that he was here, what had he best do? He had never seen
the rock before, and as it struck him that possibly some of his patrons
might be in the same unfortunate condition, he concluded that he would
take a few sketches of it for their benefit. But he did not succeed very
well. The first drawing he made had a strange appearance. It looked more
like an old woman tied to a post, and surrounded by what seemed to be
flames, than anything else. This surely was not a correct view of this
famous rock, and so Mr. P. commenced another sketch. This, however,
looked so much like a man with a broad-brimmed hat, hanging by his neck
to a rope, that he concluded to try again.

His next sketch bore a striking resemblance to something that certainly
did not seem like a rock, but which, after some deliberation, he found
to look very much like a shrinking Southern <DW64>, forced into the ranks
to supply the place of a citizen of Massachusetts. Everybody might not
be able to see this, but Mr. P. thought he perceived it plainly.

The last sketch made by Mr. P. somewhat resembled one whose connection
with "The Plymouth Rock" has certainly been of more practical benefit to
the public than that of any of the " old founders," or anybody else--at
least so far as Mr. P. can see. If any one doubts this, let him ask
General GRANT.

Now should his readers see anything at all suggestive of sober and
beneficial reflection in these sketches, Mr. P.'s visit to Plymouth Rock
was not made in vain.

 * * * * *

A LETTER FROM L. N.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: The Empire is
 Peace, as usual. If, some time hence, it
should be discovered to have been otherwise, at the time of writing this
letter, you will please understand that I wasn't there, at that moment,
having had a little business to transact with my good friend WILLIAMS,
of PRUSSIA. I am at present engaged upon a tour of the German States in
the company of a pleasant little excursion party, who met me at Sedan,
and received me warmly.

Everybody seems glad to greet me, particularly at this time, and all
express regrets that I couldn't have come earlier in the season. They
are aware of the interest I have ever felt in the great German people,
and I am assured they welcome with enthusiasm my pet theory of the
solidarity of nations.

I intend remaining here awhile, feeling sure that there is nothing to
call me homeward for the present. The truth is, my friend, I am getting
weaned of the French people. So soon as my obligations to my very good
friends in Prussia will permit, you may look for me in New York. Yes,
dear PUNCHINELLO, greatest and beet of Philosophers! expect to see me
walking into your Sanctum one of these fine mornings,--probably with my
son LOUIS,--delighted to see you, and glad to turn my back on those
scenes so long familiar, which, in their new and popular dress, could
hardly be expected to afford me much exhilaration.

From an inferior man, I should expect officious and quite gratuitous
commiseration over the fate of the late Empire. You, however, will
readily perceive it to be possible that I should rather be
congratulated. You would not exchange your dignified leisure, your
careless toils, for the best of sovereignties. Why, then, should I, who
have made you my exemplar, feel a pang at parting with a sceptre which
for years has only tired my hand?

I picture myself seated with my family on the heights at Weehawken,
smoking a good cigarette, and musing on the affairs of nations as I
watch the flow of that superb river (as much finer than the Rhine, my
friend, as wine is finer than lagerbier!) which I have often
, in days
gone by, admired and extolled by the hour.

I expect they will pleasantly call me Duke Hudson, and my son the Prince
of Staten Island. No matter. I can always face the Inevitable.

And that reminds me of the late war, in which the Inevitable that I was
always being called upon to face, was the Inevitable Prussian. But I
have faced much more terrible things. In your very city of Hoboken, I
have stood face to face with a German creditor! Will any one henceforth
doubt my fortitude?

I have one rather comforting reflection, apropos to that _rencontre._ I
have taken care to arm myself against future assaults of that nature. I
am Gold-Plated.

If your highly-gifted corps of artists should wish to depict me in a
connection which would satisfy my sense of honor, let them make a sketch
entitled: "The Two Exiles,"--one of whom may be,my Uncle at St. Helena;
the other, me, at Weehawken, with my family near, a glass of wine at my
side, a cigarette in one hand, and a copy of PUNCHINELLO in the other!

But let me not anticipate. Sufficient unto the day is the (d)evil
thereof.

Royally yours,

L. N.

 * * * * *

Maxim for the next new President.

"A place for everybody, and everybody in his place."

 * * * * *

[Illustration: ON COLOR.

_Cousin Bella, (admiring picture.)_ "HOW IS IT, FRED, THAT YOU PRODUCE
SUCH LOVELY COLOR, AND WITH SO MUCH FACILITY?"

_Fred, (thinking of his meerschaum.)_ "I DON'T TELL EVERYBODY THAT, YOU
INQUISITIVE TEASE, BUT FACT IS, I PUT THE STUMP OF AN OLD PAINT-BRUSH IN
THE BOWL, AND SMOKE THE OILIEST TOBACCO I CAN FIND."]

 * * * * *

THE BATTLE AT SEDAN.

Special Correspondence of Punchinello.

(This paper is the only paper on the planet which has a correspondent at
the seat of war, wherever that seat may be. The following dispatch was
sent to us by cable at a total expense of $21,000.)

It was a still, calm night, the glorious moon was sailing through the
sky; the river was running water; the clouds were cloudy; the soldiers
were soldiering. I stepped out of my tent and tumbled over VON MO
LTKE.
He took my arm and invited me to the tent of the Crown Prince.

"MOLTY," said I, "what's your little game?"

"Penny ante," replied he.

"_Tres bien,_" added I.

"You are a French spy. Ha! ha!" said he, grasping my collar. "Ho! Ho!"

"_Das ish goot,_" added I.

"Then you're Dutch," sighed he, dropping me like a hot pair of tongs.

In the tent we found the King, the Crown Prince, Gen. STEINMETZ, Gen.
SHERIDAN, and Gen. FORSYTH.

"MOLTY," said I, "introduce me to the King."

"BILL," said he, "this is JENKINS."

BILL held out his foot and I took a suck at his great toe.

Then we went at the game. BILL is pretty good at it, but then he doesn't
stand any chance beside MOLTY. The Crown Prince lost at least fourteen
cents, and, just as he had a splendid opportunity to retrieve his
losses, in came an aide, who announced that the French had squatted.

"Where?" cried VON MOLTKE.

"In Sedan," replied the aide.

"I knew it," said MOLTY. "BILL, I told you they had no horses for a
regular carriage."

Then we went out. The King invited me to sit in his carriage with MOLTY
and SHERIDAN. We reached the scene of war.

The moon shone; the mountains were mountainous; the trees were treey;
and the soft September breeze was breezy. BISMARCK came up and asked the
King to let him cut behind.

"BIS," said I, "take my seat; I'll take a trip to the French camp."

So I tripped over to the French camp and found things somewhat mixed.
The moon shone. Steadily the Prussian troops advanced; and, with a
heroism worthy of a better cause, the French retreated. The Emperor
wanted to die in the rear of his men.

"NAP," said I, "you'd better get up and get. The Prussians are coming."

"JENKINS," said he, "kiss me for my mother, I'm betrayed."

"Why didn't you have more cheesepots?" said I.

"I'll surrender," said he, "get out a white flag."

So I took one of EUGENIE'S old pocket-handkerchiefs which I found in the
tent, stuck it on the end of the sabre of the nephew of his uncle, put
NAP in the carriage, jumped in myself and drove to the Prussian
 camp.
The moon shone; all nature smiled; the rivers were rivery; the Sedans
were chairy.

BILL received us very coolly at first, but I gave BIS the wink, and he
suggested to his Majesty that he'd better take the Emperor prisoner.

"NAP," said BILL, "is the game up?"

"BILL," said NAP, "you've scored the game. I leave my old clothes to the
Regent. I hope she'll like the breeches."

Then he treated to cigarettes, and we all went back to our game of penny
ante. NAP wouldn't join us. He said he'd just been playing a game with
crowns ante and he was busted. We'd hardly got the cards dealt, when
BILL turned to BISMARCK and asked, "I say, BIS, won't you run over and
telegraph to the old woman something about our FRITZ?"

"Let JENKINS go," said BIS.

Of course I assented to the proposition.

"Where the devil is FRITZ?" said BILL.

"Oh, he's been sleeping for the last two hours," said MOLTKE.

"Never mind," said BILL, "telegraph a victory by FRITZ."

So I telegraphed,

"A great victory has been won by our FRITZ. What great things have we
done for ourselves! We'll keep it up, old woman,

(Signed) BILL."

When I reached the tent everybody was asleep. NAP was reclining
gracefully on the breast of BISMARCK, as affectionately as if they were
brothers-in-law. The moon shone; the sky was skyey; the hills were
hilly; and all nature was getting up.

Anybody who says the above did not come over the cable lies, wickedly,
maliciously lies, with intent to deceive. As soon as JACK SMITH'S smack
sails, I'll send you a piece of the cable it came over.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: Mr. Bull: The Sutler of the World]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN TO KONIG WILHELM

He Reviews the Career of a Lunatic. -- A Graduate with Nice Ideas.

KING WILYAM, Most noble Loonatic:

_We gates all der while!_ Accordin' to the Marine Cable, I understand
you've given old BONEY a _slosh on der cope mit der Sweitzer case;_ or
in good plain United States talk, LEWIS NAPOLEON has taken his Umpire,
and shoved it up the spout, without the benefit of Judge or Jewry.

I kin
der had an idee that when the now busted up rooler of the Umpire
tackled you, that it would have been a ten dollar greenback in his
panterloons pocket if he had let the contract out on shares to his
nabors.

I've allers heard say that as able-bodied a Loonatic as the French say
you be, could handle any 3 ordinary men, "Be be Jost or Gobler damed,"
to cote from our friend BILLY SHAKESPEER.

We have had evidences here, of the superiority of Loonatics, mor'en
once.

If a man can prove that his upper story is crackt, he can wallop his
wife to his heart's content; and if anybody interferes, he can popp him
off with a six shooter, and the law will stand to his back.

Judges and Jewrys, when tryin' such a man, think he is sum punkins,
while all the illustrated papers stick the celebrated Loonatic's
fotograf onto their first page.

I would like to ask you, if your insanity is of the melon-colic, (this
bein' the season when melons is ripe,) or is it of the _pro temper_
kind?

I shoulden't wonder, between you and I, but that you inherited it from
your illustrous Antsister, FREDERICK the Grate, who was about as sassy a
Loonatic as you can pick up.

What _we_ need just now, and what _we_ have needed for a good while, is
a able-bodied Loonatic to send to England as minister.

With such a crazy Statesman as you be, them 'ere little Alabarmy claims
would have been squared up long ago, or else, if this court knows
herself intimately, the British lion would have been sent off howlin',
with a tin kittle tide to his cordil appendage.

You probly observe, I go heavy on Loonatics. Yes, sir! they are the
"Coming man," the 16th Commandment; or Chinese Coolers can't hold a
candle to 'em.

When a man ups and does something nobody else can do, if they'd bust
their biler tryin', then he is sot down as bein' crazy as a loon by his
jelous nabors.

I haven't heard whether BISMARK'S or FRITZ'S upper storys were shaky, or
not, but there haint the shadder of a dowt in my mind, but what both of
these long headed chaps are madder than GEO. FRANCIS
 TRAIN any day; and
that the Crown Prints employs his spare time strikin' tragic attitoods,
and repeatin' the follerin well known verses:

 "I am not mad!
 I am not mad!
 But only on my mussle.
 Old NAP'd been glad
 If he and King dad
 Had never got into a tussle."

My object in riting to you, great Conkeror of the man whose son was so
_bully_ at pickin' up _bullocks,_ is to congratulate you.

Speakin' after the manner of men, You are an old Cinnamon bud. Havin'
served my country for 4 years as Gustise of the Peece, you can rely on
my giving a good sound opinion, from which there haint no repeal to a
higher court.

What do you think of my startin' a college here for the purpus of
edicatin' Loonatics?

We've got 3 colliges here, Harvard, 'Ale, and the Electoral College, and
a skalier lot of week-kneed timber than these institutions sometimes
turns out, would make you stick to your stomack to look at.

Stugents are turned out from these asilums with pooty ristocratick idees
into their nozzles.

I once knew a chap who was a gradooate of one of these institutions of
larning,

He was more ristocratick than a retired church deekin'.

When his wife died, he wanted her to look respectable at the funeral, so
he sent to one of his nabors to borrer a silk dress for the corpse to
wear, doorin' the funeral services.

Thinks I, that was shovin' a good thing rather too deep in the ground,
merely for the sake of pilin' on the agony.

However, that's the way of the world; larnin' will stick out, and you
can't atop her.

That son of your'n, FRITZ, is smarter than a 2 year old heifer.

If he haint in that precarious situation which SARY F. NORTON calls
"mummery," and the Onida Community says Amen! to, but which good honest
folks, like you and I, calls married, then I would say that he mite go
further and fare a site wusser, than to come over here and examine my
stock of risin' feminine genders.

Mrs. GREEN, the mother of my dorters, is a woman who understands her biz
as housekeeper, and anybody who gits one of her gals won't be tro
ubled
to death by keepin' a cook to boss 'em around.

Doorin' the prosperous days of Skeensboro, when I was baskin' in the
sunshine of offishal life, and had a politikle ax to grind, MARIAR'S
biled dinners used to fetch Polerticians to their milk, ekal to the way
a big dinner at DELMONICO'S, N.Y., will flop over a New York Alderman.

The surest way of gettin' round a public man, is via his stomack.

 Like ALADIN'S lamp, you can
 By merely givin' a rub,
 Bring around most any man,
 By fillin' him up with grub.

But, most noble cuss of the Realm, I must lay aside my goose quil, and
go and do the family chores. But afore I close this letter let me speak
a word for your noble prisoner, L. NAPOLEON, Esq.

Deal gently with him.

Altho' he plade the wrong card when he pitched into you, recollect the
old maxum:

"Never bute a feller when he is down."

France is better, in a good many respects, for things LEWIS done for
'em.

But he has gone to the shades, and SHAKSPEER aptly says:

 "The evil which men do,
 Lives a darn site longer than
 The evil they don't do."

Which sentiment shode that old SHAKE was a hulsail dealer in human
nater.

Hopin' that in the days of your prosperity, you wont forgit your poor
relations, sich as _mothers-in-law_ and the like, and when they come to
visit you, you wont say:

"Nix cum arous,"

I will dry up.

Ewers anon,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece_

 * * * * *

THE LOVERS.

In Different Moods and Tenses.

 SALLY SALTER, she was a young teacher, who taught,
 And her friend, CHARLEY CHURCH, was a preacher, who praught;
 Though his enemies called him a screecher, who scraught.

 His heart, when he saw her, kept sinking, and sunk,
 And his eye, meeting hers, began winking, and wunk;
 While she, in her turn, fell to thinking, and thunk.

 He hastened to woo her, and sweetly he wooed,
 For his love grew until to a mountain it grewed,
 And what he was longing to do, then he doed.

 In secret he wanted to speak, and he spoke,
 To seek with his lips what his heart long had soke;
 So 
he managed to let the truth leak, and it loke.

 He asked her to ride to the church, and they rode;
 They so sweetly did glide, that they both thought they glode,
 And they came to the place to be tied, and were tode.

 Then homeward he said let us drive, and they drove,
 And soon as they wished to arrive, they arrove;
 For whatever he couldn't contrive, she controve.

 The kiss he was dying to steal, then he stole,
 At the feet where he wanted to kneel, there he knole,
 And he said, " I feel better than ever I fole."

 So they to each other kept clinging, and clung,
 While Time his swift circuit was winging, and wung;
 And this was the thing he was bringing, and brung.

 The man SALLY wanted to catch, and had caught--
 That she wanted from others to snatch, and had snaught--
 Was the one that she now liked to scratch, and she scraught

 And CHARLEY'S warm love began freezing, and froze,
 While he took to teasing, and cruelly toze
 The girl he had wished to be squeezing, and squoze.

 "Wretch!" he cried when she threatened to leave him, and left,
 "How could you deceive me, as you have deceft?"
 And she answered, "I promised to cleave, and I've cleft!"

AMOS KEETER

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A PRETTY IDEA OF MR. VAN LITTLEDRAM: HE TAKES HIS
YOUNGSTER OUT FOR A SAIL, THUS, AND SAVES THE EXPENSE OF A BOAT.]

 * * * * *

THE POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO VII.

 Tom, Tom the Pipers' son,
 Stole a Pig, and away he run;
 The Pig was eat, and TOM was beat.
 And TOM went roaring down the street.

The above verse immortalizes an event that caused great excitement in
the period in which it occurred, although at the present date it would
not be considered of much account, or cause the smallest ripple on the
glassy calm of our most, sleepy village.

We have progressed beyond being stirred by any little peccadillo such as
the theft of a pig or a sheep, or even a watch or a purse, unless it
contains a large amount, and was taken under the most aggravating
circumstances from ourselves.

A robbery of a bank of a million, when it 
happens to affect hundreds of
people, or a midnight murder executed with the malignancy of a fiend,
will sometimes stir up the public for a few days, but even that soon
passes out of mind, and society settles back into its imperturbable
apathy, retreating with each wave of excitement still further, and
becoming by degrees proof against being stirred by anything that does
not affect ourselves personally.

Not so, however, in those days of Arcadian simplicity; for the
astounding temerity of the Piper's son, in laying felonious hands on the
property of the village butcher, or baker, caused an excitement second
only to a hanging, or a first-class sensational horror, of later days.

Poor TOM was a deal to be pitied as well as blamed; for although he was
the one who committed the crime, he was not the only one who reaped a
benefit therefrom. But the traditional historian tells us, he was the
only one who was punished therefor; so, while we blame him, let us shed
a tear of sympathy because he alone got the beating, the others the
eating. The scene is graphically described thusly--

 "Tom, Tom the Piper's son,
 Stole a pig, and away he run."

Here we see Tom, the good-for-nothing, standing idly around, listening
to the witching strains of his father's bagpipe, played by the
industrious musician before the doors of the well-to-do villagers, with
the laudable view of obtaining the wherewith to purchase the meat that
both might eat; and while the instrument that has well served its day
and generation is groaning and wheezing under the pressure brought to
bear upon it, TOM'S eyes, roving around from window to door, happen to
light on a beautiful sucking-pig, that reposes in all the innocent
beauty of baby pighood before the open door of a zealous stickler for
human rights.

Alas! TOM is not acquainted with the gentlemanly owner of the
fascinating pig, and he doesn't know how strong his principles are, nor
how far he will go to maintain them.

He gazes enraptured upon the dainty porker, and as he looks, the desire
to own just
 such a one grows upon him, and soon it becomes a
determination to own that identical one, for never another could equal
that. He looks stealthily around and finds the eyes of all are fixed
upon the musician and his bagpipe. No one notices him, and hailing it as
a happy omen, he pounces upon the coveted quadruped, grasps it tightly
in his hands, and skedaddles.

The music is ended and the crowd disperses. The absence of piggy is
unnoticed till the red-headed urchin whose playmate it is looks around
for the loved companion, of his childish sports, and finds it not. Great
research, amid loud outcries, is made, resulting only in the conviction
that the pet of the family is gone, leaving no trace behind.

TOM, with his prize, exultingly hurries homeward, his heart swelling
with joy at his luck. Like a dutiful son, he rushes to the arms of his
maternal parent and deposits in her capacious lap the dainty prize.
Visions of a luscious supper float through the mind of the female
piperess, as she bestows her motherly benediction upon her thoughtful
son, and proceeds to put into execution the well-conned lesson of
cooking a sucking pig.

Having accomplished the "First get your pig" part, the rest comes easy;
and at night, when the old Piper returns, his olfactories are sainted
with an odor that startles him from his generally despondent mood, and
awakens his curiosity as to the cause of such an unusual flavor from his
usually flavorless abode. He enters and finds a smiling wife and son,
with a smoking pig awaiting his coming. "What next occurred the Poet
tells us in the laconic words

 "The pig was eat."

There was no necessity for describing the way of eating; the fact was
enough. But alas! there is always a dark side to everything, and this
happy family were no exception, The bones were left. They couldn't eat
them, and they didn't own a dog; so they picked them clean and threw
them away. But, "Murder will out," and the tiny bones told their own
tale. The village detective soon coupled the feet of the missing pig
with the
 unusual occurrence of a heap of bones before the door of the
musician's abode, and by a process of reasoning unknown to the
detectives of the present day, decided that those bones were a pig's
bones--a stolen pig's bones, from the fact that the Piper did not earn
enough to indulge in such luxuries as sucking-pigs. Now who stole the
sucking-pig?

Clearly not Madame Piper, for she was too fat and heavy to have any
light-fingered proclivities.

Clearly not the Piper himself, for he was playing his bagpipe and could
prove an alibi.

There was no one left but TOM. Circumstances pointed him out: he loved
good eating and hated work, and had been noticed gazing upon the charms
of the missing family pet. It was settled, then. TOM was the thief, and
the offender must be punished. But how? Law was too uncertain and
expensive, TOM was too poor to pay for the pig, so it was resolved to
take the worth of it out of him by beating. The poet tells us

 "TOM was beat."

Undoubtedly TOM was glad when they got through, and although he

 "Went roaring down the street,"

it was a matter of rejoicing with him that he had saved his bacon. It
was impossible to get that out through his hide, and they had no stomach
pumps in those days.

 * * * * *

Scene.--A. City Restaurant.

_Waiter, (to customer, who is winding up his repast_.) "Anything more,
sir?"

_Customer_. "H'm--well--yes; bring me an omelette souffle."

_Waiter_. "Omelet Shoo-fly, sir? Yessir."

(_Exit, humming the popular tune_.)

 * * * * *

Unintentionally Appropriate.

The Sun tells a very large story of its own circulation, and then
innocently requests the "False Reporting" _Tribune_ to copy it!

 * * * * *

BY GEORGE!

(_Continued_.)

LAKE GEORGE, Sept 5.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO:--In my last I promised to finish my trip on the Lake
and give you some reliable rumors about the "Rogers' Slide."

I am prepared to do this to-day, in a happy and congratulatory frame of
mind.

I have had breakfast this morning.

When I say this I mean that I have had this morning's breakfast this
morn
ing.

Any one who has achieved so remarkable a success, at this place, can
safely plume himself on his patience and physical endurance.

For instance, this morning, for the first time, I ordered broiled Spring
Chicken.

The waiter gave me a disconsolate look and proceeded to gird up his
loins with a base ball belt.

In a few moments he dashed past the window in hot pursuit of a fowl of
venerable appearance, but of a style of going that would have put to
shame any ostrich that Dr. LIVINGSTONE ever saw.

I asked the head waiter if he called that a _Spring Chicken_?

He said he guessed that chicken could out-Spring any chicken in the
place.

This clears up another great hotel mystery.

The man outflanked this gentle birdling on the eighth time round, in
6.23, which is considered very good indeed, and beats the time of the
late Harvard and Yale "Foul" considerably.

I say "outflanked," because it is not the intention of these sunny
Amendments to put an end to these feathery Dexters immediately, but to
drive them into the ten-pin alley, where they are leisurely bowled to an
untimely end. As, however, pony balls are generally used, and there are
always half a dozen <DW54>s standing around ready to bet that the
chicken won't be killed in forty balls, or sixty, as the case may be,
this part of the process is rather tedious to the guest

Sometimes, when the chicken is not very active, there are not more than
nine or ten-pin feathers left.

Well, the next place the boat stopped at is called "Sabbath Day Point,"
in consequence of ABERCROMBIE having landed there on a Wednesday
morning.

Its name will therefore be considered a joke by such as see the Point.

A gentleman on board informed me that the water was so clear at this
place that one could "see objects when thirty feet from the bottom."

I have thought and thought over this remark, but am unable to see what
one's distance from the bottom has to do with his "seeing objects."

I give it up.

On the opposite side of the Lake is a hill called "Sugar Loaf
Mountain"--because
 it is a sweet place for loafers, I suppose.

Finally we passed "Rogers' Slide," which is a rocky precipice three
hundred feet high, sloping nearly perpendicularly into the water. A
decidedly unpleasant-looking place for cellar-door practice.

There are a great many romantic traditions about this same ROGERS, who
is regarded by the simple natives as having been an altogether
high-minded and gorgeous character--the fact being that he was one of
those unmitigated old scamps who owe to the accident of having lived in
Revolutionary times, the distinction of being held up to the emulation
of primary schools as a "Patriot Hero." Literally he was simply an
"unmixed evil," fighting only to steal something, and devoting what time
and talent he could spare from his legitimate profession--which was
_seven-up_--to generally bedevilling and encroaching upon the
neighboring Indians.

As an enchroachist he was immense.

The noble red-skins alluded to finally concluded that enough was enough,
and appointed a Special Commission to put a permanent end to the
delicate attentions of the "Marked Back."

This _sobriquet_ they conferred upon him partly on account of the fact
that he usually received his wounds while leaving their immediate
vicinity, and partly because of a peculiar characteristic of the kind of
cards he used.

The Commissioners caught ROGERS out hunting, and chased him until he
came to this precipice, down which he slid into the Lake below, and,
unfortunately, escaped unharmed.

The Indians, who were pursuing him by the imprints of his snow-shoes,
soon arrived at the brink. Seeing what had occurred, they concluded to
"let him slide."

Hence the name.

Evidently they thought, from the trail, that he must have gone over.
Though he was by no means a missionary, the Tracks he had left produced
a profound impression on their untutored minds.

They at once concluded that he was drowned, or had got "in with" some
bad spirits.

It is obvious, however, to the most casual observer of the place, that
the reverse must have been th
e case. The bad spirits were in him.

The mark worn by Mr. R's "cheviots" in his descent can still be
distinctly seen.

About half way up is a shining object which is generally believed to be
a suspender button.

This, however, is merely conjectural.

The clerk of the boat, of whom I have spoken before, tells me that until
within a few years back, the hole in the water where ROGERS struck could
be seen.

"But it is all gone now," he said, shaking his head sadly. "Nothing can
escape the Vandal horde of tourists and relic hunters. Piece by piece
they have carried the hole away, and there is no trace of it left now."

And he "wept at my tranquillity."

At the north end of the Lake we took stages for Fort Ticonderoga. These
vehicles were run by a man who was pointed out as a "character," which
means a sort of licensed nuisance.

The monomania of this individual was speech making, and much reflection
inclines me to the belief that he is some unappreciated politician who
has invented a way of "taking it out" on the unhappy public as follows:

He waits until his five immense stages arrive at some remote and
solitary part of the road, then draws them up in a semi-circle, mounts a
stump, and--on pretence of exhibiting the beauties of nature--proceeds
to harangue the helpless fares to the top of his very high bent, or
until one of the slumbering "outsides" creates a welcome diversion by
falling off and breaking his neck.

We came to what was really a curiosity--two kinds of trees growing from
one trunk, which this concentration of bores, this _mitrailleuse_, in
fact, improved accordingly.

"Here, Ladies and Gentlemen, you per-ceive one of the _re_-markable and
_pe_-culiar works of a benign _Per_-rovidence. On the right you see the
sturdy and iron-hearted oak, while on the left you behold the modest and
_be_-utiful ellum. What Having has joined together let no man put
asunder--gerlang with yer hosses!"

It must have been a Sunday-school Superintendent who invented excursions
to Fort Ty.

It is not a place to Tye to.

One ol
d gentleman pointed to an underground hole and advised me to go
and look at the magazine.

I went; but it is hardly necessary to say that I didn't find any, and,
on the whole, I was glad of it If people don't know any more than to
leave their _Galaxys_ and _Harper's_ lying around loose when travelling,
why, they deserve to have them stolen, that's all.

I was sorry for the old gentleman, but if there is anything that
disgusts me, it is to meet people that ain't posted about things.

As the steamer neared the Hotel, on our return, the departing sun was
flinging back his last good-night smile on the lovely scene below, and
the musical chime of the little church at Caldwell came stealing sweetly
over the bosom of the placid Lake. As its fairy-like sounds reached our
ears, a melancholy-looking man with long hair, who sat near, started,
smiled, and turning to me, said:

"Did I ever tell you that story about SLUKER?"

As I had never seen the party before, I replied that if he had I had
forgotten it.

"SLUKER," he repeated, gazing absently at the distant spire; "SLUKER,"
he reiterated, rubbing his nose abstractedly with the handle of his
umbrella; "SLUKER," he continued--

--in my next, my dear PUNCHINELLO, in my next.

 SAGINAW DODD.

[_To be continued_.]

 * * * * *

Sauce

There can be no doubt that Grevy is in the right place, as a member of
the Provisional government of France.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: _Old Gent_. "Don't scatter water on my feet, man,--do you
suppose I want 'em to grow any bigger?"]

 * * * * *

EDUCATION FOR DETECTIVES.

Although our Metropolitan Detectives have hitherto failed to solve the
mystery in which certain atrocious murders remain shrouded, yet it would
be simply captious to impeach them, on that account, for lack of
sagacity, zeal, courage, or any of the numerous other qualities that go
to the making up of an efficient "Hawkshaw."

That they are not deficient in zeal, at least, is manifest from a
circumstance which took place a short time since. Counterfeiting had
been carried on to a
 great extent in the city. The rashness of
counterfeiters is proverbial, and they usually carry on their operations
immediately under the nasal protuberance of the law. Nevertheless, in
the case under notice, some vigilant detective, with a nose as sharp as
that of a Spitz-dog, obtained a clue to the arrangements of the
counterfeiters. Having informed some of his associates, a concerted
descent was made by the party upon a house in one of the lower streets
of the city. A portion of the house is, and has been for years past,
occupied by several artists connected with the illustrated press. Few
gentlemen are better known in large circles than these artists, none
more highly appreciated by hosts of friends. But duty is duty--often
stern, but never to be shirked; and so the faithful detectives inserted
their Spitz-dog noses between the joints of the artists' doors, and,
having smelt a very large rat, suddenly burst in upon these graphic
malefactors, and caught them in the act, with all the tools and
paraphernalia of their nefarious occupation scattered about their vile
den.

Most of them were engaged in executing drawings upon blocks of wood,
although it is probable that some of them were smoking pipes--tobacco
being vastly conducive to that concentration of thought by which alone
great mental efforts can be followed by equivalent results. Short work
was made by the sagacious detectives, when they saw the graphic
malefactors engaged in their diabolical toil. Some of the officers
seized the implements of the gang, while others collared the
delinquents, and marched them through the streets to the nearest police
station, where they were thrust into a dungeon and locked up for the
night.

Next morning, on being taken before a magistrate, the prisoners were
discharged, on the grounds that the affair was a mistake--or a joke--we
are not exactly informed which; but the parties chiefly interested do
not look upon it as a joke.

Now it is a very clear case that the mistake in question--or joke--may
be traced to a deficiency o
f education on the part of these vigilant and
zealous detectives. Had they been properly cultivated in the various
branches of art, the slight blunder to which we refer could not have
occurred. The Spitz-dog noses, instead of smelling Rat, would have smelt
its anagram, Art. Its influence would at once have been acknowledged by
them, and they would have backed out from the August Presence with
obsequious genuflexions. It becomes a question of moment, then, whether
a course of lectures upon art should not henceforth be considered an
indispensable branch of the education of our excellent detectives. We
would not limit the proposed extension of their education, however, to
the study of art, alone. Botany should be insisted on as a necessary
accession to the stock of the detectives' learning; and especially would
we have them instructed in a full knowledge of the leguminous
vegetables--such as beans.

 * * * * *

Temporary Obscuration of the "Hub."

Boston already has the biggest church- organ in all Creation. She also
has the most public Public Garden of modern times. Last year she had the
loudest Musical Jubilee ever organized, and it is further to be noted
that she is the proud possessor of the most uncommon of Commons. Early
in October, however, all these cherished immensities of Boston must fall
into insignificance and "feel small." On the second day of that month,
Colonel FISK is to make his triumphant entry into Boston, at the head of
the gallant Ninth. Organ, Jubilee, Public Garden, Big Drum, Common--all,
all of these will then have to subside and fade away into thin air
before the stately presence of the Prince of Erie and his valiant
command.

 * * * * *

Boy and Man.

"Miss ANNIE P. LADD, of Augusta, Me., has been appointed by the governor
and confirmed by the council as a justice of the peace."

 To be a man and magistrate
 'Twas natural that ANNIE sighed,
 Since she one phase of man's estate
 Already as a LADD had tried.

 * * * * *

A Nut for the Ladies' Club.

Referring to the recent ladies' boat race a
t Harlem, a reporter says
that "the girls all rowed badly." This is a discouraging comment on the
frantic efforts now making by women to assume man's attributes, (not to
mention his other "butes" and the what-d'ye-call-'ems generally
associated with them,) and it is a very significant fact that the
comment can be tersely clinched by the words So rows Sis.

 * * * * *

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

Among the numerous portraits of the late CHARLES DICKENS now before the
public, none are likely to be more popular than one in chromograph
lately issued by PRANG & Co., of Boston and New York. It represents the
great and genial writer as some few years younger than he was when he
last visited this country. The expression of the face is one of
thought--rather as he might have appeared when meditating over some new
turn to be given to the thread of a narrative, than as he used to look
when reading to an audience. This picture is printed in two or three
simple tints, of which the flesh tint is the most predominant. It is set
in an oval passe-partout, and requires only a glass over it to fit it
for placing on a wall.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Have just received several Cases |
 | |
 | PARIS MADE SILK AND POPLIN |
 | |
 | Street and Evening |
 | |
 | DRESSES, |
 | |
 | Two cases Cloth and Velvet Pattern |
 | |
 | Sacques, Cloaks, &c., |
 | |
 | An opening of |
 | |
 | HANDSOME TRIMMED HATS, |
 | |
 | Latest Paris Style. Also, |
 | |
 | Children's and Misses' Undergarments, |
 | Infants' Outfits, etc., etc. |
 | |
 | Several Cases Real India |
 | Camel's-Hair Shawls, |
 | |
 | At unusually attractive prices. |
 | |
 | Embroideries, Laces, Real Lace and LLama |
 | Pointes, Dresses, &c. |
 | |
 | WEDDING TROUSSEAUX. |
 | |
 | The above forms only a very small portion of their |
 | Large and Attractive Stock of |
 | |
 | ELEGANT GOODS, |
 | |
 | Imported and Domestic Made. |
 | |
 | Offered at |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | 
|
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Offer the largest, richest, and cheapest stock of |
 | |
 | DRESS GOODS, |
 | |
 | That has ever been Offered in this City, |
 | |
 | Comprising many Novelties in |
 | |
 | Poplins, Armures Cloths, Epinglines, Extra |
 | |
 | Quality Merinos, Ladies' Cloths, &c., &c. |
 | |
 | A Large Line of |
 | |
 | DOMESTIC SHIRTINGS, SHEETINGS, |
 | BLANKETS, FLANNELS, |
 | |
 | And every Variety of |
 | |
 | HOUSEKEEPING GOODS. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | EXTRAORDINARY BARGAINS |
 | |
 | IN |
 | CARPETS. |
 | |
 | Five Frame |
 | ENGLISH BRUSSELS, |
 | Reduced to $1.75 per yard. |
 | |
 | 200 Pieces Five-Frame |
 | |
 | English Brussels, |
 | |
 | Greater part Confined Styles, Reduced to $2 per yard. |
 | |
 | Very Best Quality |
 | |
 | ENGLISH TAPESTRY BRUSSELS |
 | |
 | $1.30 per yard. |
 | |
 | FRENCH MOQUETTES |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | AXMINSTERS, |
 | |
 | $3.50 and $4 per yard. |
 | |
 | ROYAL WILTONS, |
 | |
 | Best Quality, $2.50 and $3 per yard. |
 | |
 | CROSSLEY'S VELVETS, |
 | |
 | Choice Designs, $2.50 per yard. |
 | |
 | Superfine Ingrains, 3-Plys. |
 | |
 | English and Domestic |
 | |
 | OILCLOTHS, RUGS, |
 | |
 | MATS, ETC., |
 | |
 | At Extremely Low Prices. |
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & CO. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of the kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | " " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00
 |
 | Single copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 by 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-5/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens; |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | Pointer and Quail; Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; The Unconscious Sleeper; The Two |
 | Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-3/4. |
 | Spring; Summer: Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. ll x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13 x 18. |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9-1/8 x 4-1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and Six American Landscapes. |
 | (A set.) 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 | Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Christine De Ryck, Stig M. Valstad, Suzanne L. Shell
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

 A
 VOYAGE TO THE MOON:
 WITH
 SOME ACCOUNT
 OF THE
 MANNERS AND CUSTOMS, SCIENCE AND PHILOSOPHY,
 OF THE
 PEOPLE OF MOROSOFIA,
 AND
 OTHER LUNARIANS.

 BY GEORGE TUCKER (JOSEPH ATTERLEY)

 "It is the very error of the moon,
 She comes more near the earth than she was wont,
 And makes men mad."--_Othello_.

 1827

 CONTENTS.

 CHAPTER I.

Atterley's birth and education--He makes a voyage--
 Founders off the Burman coast--Adventures in
 that Empire--Meets with a learned Brahmin from
 Benares.

 CHAPTER II.

The Brahmin's illness--He reveals an important secret
 to Atterley--Curious information concerning the
 Moon--The Glonglims--They plan a voyage to
 the Moon.

 CHAPTER III.

The Brahmin and Atterley prepare for their voyage--
 Description of their travelling machine--Incidents
 of the voyage--The appearance of the earth;
 Africa; Greece--The Brahmin's speculations on
 the different races of men--National character.

 CHAPTER IV.

Continuation of the voyage--View of Europe; Atlantic
 Ocean; America--Speculations on the future
 destiny of the United States--Moral reflections--
 Pacific Ocean--Hypothesis on the origin of the
 Moon.

 CHAPTER V.

The voyage continued--Second view of Asia--The
 Brahmin's speculations concerning India--Increase
 of the Moon's attraction--Appearance of the Moon
 --They land on the Moon.

 CHAPTER VI.

Some account of Morosofia, and its chief city, Alamatua
 --Singular dresses of the Lunar ladies--Religious
 self-denial--Glonglim miser and spendthrift.

 CHAPTER VII.

Physical peculiarities of the Moon--Celestial phenomena
 --Farther description of the Lunarians--National
 prejudice--Lightness of bodies--The Brahmin
 carries Atterley to sup with a philosopher--
 His character and opinions.

 CHAPTER VIII.

A celebrated physician: his ingenious theories in physics:
 his mechanical inventions--The feather-hunting Glonglim.

 CHAPTER IX.

The fortune-telling philosopher, who inspected the
 fi
nger nails: his visiters--Another philosopher,
 who judged of the character by the hair--The
 fortune-teller duped--Predatory warfare.

 CHAPTER X.

The travellers visit a gentleman farmer, who is a great
 projector: his breed of cattle: his apparatus for
 cooking--He is taken dangerously ill.

 CHAPTER XI.

Lunarian physicians: their consultation--While they
 dispute the patient recovers--The travellers visit
 the celebrated teacher Lozzi Pozzi.

 CHAPTER XII.

Election of the Numnoonce, or town-constable--
 Violence of parties--Singular institution of the Syringe
 Boys--The prize-fighters--Domestic manufactures.

 CHAPTER XIII.

Description of the Happy Valley--The laws, customs,
 and manners of the Okalbians--Theory of population
 --Rent--System of government.

 CHAPTER XIV.

Further account of Okalbia--The Field of Roses--
 Curious superstition concerning that flower--The
 pleasures of smell traced to association, by a
 Glonglim philosopher.

 CHAPTER XV.

Atterley goes to the great monthly fair--Its various
 exhibitions; difficulties--Preparations to leave the
 Moon--Curiosities procured by Atterley--Regress
 to the Earth.

 CHAPTER XVI.

The Brahmin gives Atterley a history of his life.

 CHAPTER XVII.

The Brahmin's story continued--The voyage concluded
 --Atterley and the Brahmin separate--Atterley
 arrives in New-York.

 Appendix: Anonymous Review of _A Voyage to the
 Moon,_ reprinted from _The American Quarterly
 Review_ No. 5 (March 1828)

APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC.

Having, by a train of fortunate circumstances, accomplished a voyage, of
which the history of mankind affords no example; having, moreover, exerted
every faculty of body and mind, to make my adventures useful to my
countrymen, and even to mankind, by imparting to them the acquisition
of secrets in physics and morals, of which they had not formed the
faintest conception,--I flattered myself that both in the character
of traveller and public benefactor, I had earned for myself an immortal
name. But how these fond, these justifiable hopes have bee
n answered,
the following narrative will show.

On my return to this my native State, as soon as it was noised abroad
that I had met with extraordinary adventures, and made a most wonderful
voyage, crowds of people pressed eagerly to see me. I at first met their
inquiries with a cautious silence, which, however, but sharpened their
curiosity. At length I was visited by a near relation, with whom I felt
less disposed to reserve. With friendly solicitude he inquired "how much
I had made by my voyage;" and when he was informed that, although I had
added to my knowledge, I had not improved my fortune, he stared at me a
while, and remarking that he had business at the Bank, as well as an
appointment on 'Change, suddenly took his leave. After this, I was not
much interrupted by the tribe of inquisitive idlers, but was visited
principally by a few men of science, who wished to learn what I could
add to their knowledge of nature. To this class I was more communicative;
and when I severally informed them that I had actually been to the
Moon, some of them shrugged their shoulders, others laughed in my face,
and some were angry at my supposed attempt to deceive them; but all,
with a single exception, were incredulous.

It was to no purpose that I appealed to my former character for veracity.
I was answered, that travelling had changed my morals, as it had changed
other people's. I asked what motives I could have for attempting to
deceive them. They replied, the love of distinction--the vanity of being
thought to have seen what had been seen by no other mortal; and they
triumphantly asked me in turn, what motives Raleigh, and Riley, and
Hunter, and a hundred other travellers, had for their misrepresentations.
Finding argument thus unavailing, I produced visible and tangible proofs
of the truth of my narrative. I showed them a specimen of moonstone.
They asserted that it was of the same character as those meteoric stones
which had been found in every part of the world, and that I had merely
procured a piece of one of these fo
r the purpose of deception. I then
exhibited some of what I considered my most curious Lunar plants: but
this made the matter worse; for it so happened, that similar ones were
then cultivated in Mr. Prince's garden at Flushing. I next produced
some rare insects, and feathers of singular birds: but persons were
found who had either seen, or read, or heard of similar insects and
birds in Hoo-Choo, or Paraguay, or Prince of Wales's Island. In short,
having made up their minds that what I said was not true, they had an
answer ready for all that I could urge in support of my character; and
those who judged most christianly, defended my veracity at the expense
of my understanding, and ascribed my conduct to partial insanity.

There was, indeed, a short suspension to this cruel distrust. An old
friend coming to see me one day, and admiring a beautiful crystal which
I had brought from the Moon, insisted on showing it to a jeweller, who
said that it was an unusually hard stone, and that if it were a diamond,
it would be worth upwards of 150,000 dollars. I know not whether the
mistake that ensued proceeded from my friend, who is something of a wag,
or from one of the lads in the jeweller's shop, who, hearing a part of
what his master had said, misapprehended the rest; but so it was, that
the next day I had more visiters than ever, and among them my kinsman,
who was kind enough to stay with me, as if he enjoyed my good fortune,
until both the Exchange and the Banks were closed. On the same day,
the following paragraph appeared in one of the morning prints:

 "We understand that our enterprising and intelligent traveller,
 JOSEPH ATTERLEY, Esquire, has brought from his Lunar Expedition,
 a diamond of extraordinary size and lustre. Several of the most
 experienced jewellers of this city have estimated it at from
 250,000 to 300,000 dollars; and some have gone so far as to say
 it would be cheap at half a million. We have the authority of a
 near relative of that gentleman for asserting, that the satisfactory
 testimonials whi
ch he possesses of the correctness of his narrative,
 are sufficient to satisfy the most incredulous, and to silence
 malignity itself."

But this gleam of sunshine soon passed away. Two days afterwards, another
paragraph appeared in the same paper, in these words:

 "We are credibly informed, that the supposed diamond of the _famous_
 traveller to the Moon, turns out to be one of those which are found
 on Diamond Island, in Lake George. We have heard that Mr. A----y
 means to favour the public with an account of his travels, under
 the title of 'Lunarian Adventures;' but we would take the liberty
 of recommending, that for _Lunarian_, he substitute _Lunatic_."

Thus disappointed in my expectations, and assailed in my character,
what could I do but appeal to an impartial public, by giving them a
circumstantial detail of what was most memorable in my adventures, that
they might judge, from intrinsic evidence, whether I was deficient either
in soundness of understanding or of moral principle? But let me first
bespeak their candour, and a salutary diffidence of themselves, by one
or two well-authenticated anecdotes.

During the reign of Louis the XIVth, the king of Siam having received
an ambassador from that monarch, was accustomed to hear, with wonder
and delight, the foreigner's descriptions of his own country: but the
minister having one day mentioned, that in France, water, at one time
of the year, became a solid substance, the Siamese prince indignantly
exclaimed,--"Hold, sir! I have listened to the strange things you have
told me, and have hitherto believed them all; but now when you wish to
persuade me that water, which I know as well as you, can become hard, I
see that your purpose is to deceive me, and I do not believe a word you
have uttered."

But as the present patriotic preference for home-bred manufactures, may
extend to anecdotes as well as to other productions, a story of domestic
origin may have more weight with most of my readers, than one introduced
from abroad.

The chief of a party of Indians, 
who had visited Washington during
Mr. Jefferson's presidency, having, on his return home, assembled his
tribe, gave them a detail of his adventures; and dwelling particularly
upon the courteous treatment the party had received from their "Great
Father," stated, among other things, that he had given them ice, though
it was then mid-summer. His countrymen, not having the vivacity of our
ladies, listened in silence till he had ended, when an aged chief stepped
forth, and remarked that he too, when a young man, had visited their
Great Father Washington, in New-York, who had received him as a son, and
treated him with all the delicacies that his country afforded, but had
given him no ice. "Now," added the orator, "if any man in the world could
have made ice in the summer, it was Washington; and if he could have made
it, I am sure he would have given it to me. Tustanaggee is, therefore, a
liar, and not to be believed."

In both these cases, though the argument seemed fair, the conclusion was
false; for had either the king or the chief taken the trouble to satisfy
himself of the fact, he might have found that his limited experience had
deceived him.

It is unquestionably true, that if travellers sometimes impose on the
credulity of mankind, they are often also not believed when they speak
the truth. Credulity and scepticism are indeed but different names for
the same hasty judgment on insufficient evidence: and, as the old woman
readily assented that there might be "mountains of sugar and rivers
of rum," because she had seen them both, but that there were "fish
which could fly," she never would believe; so thousands give credit
to Redheiffer's patented discovery of perpetual motion, because they
had beheld his machine, and question the existence of the sea-serpent,
because they have not seen it.

I would respectfully remind that class of my readers, who, like the
king, the Indian, or the old woman, refuse to credit any thing which
contradicts the narrow limits of their own observation, that there are
"more secrets in na
ture than are dreamt of in their philosophy;" and
that upon their own principles, before they have a right to condemn me,
they should go or send to the mountains of Ava, for some of the metal
with which I made my venturous experiment, and make one for themselves.

As to those who do not call in question my veracity, but only doubt my
sanity, I fearlessly appeal from their unkind judgment to the sober and
unprejudiced part of mankind, whether, what I have stated in the following
pages, is not consonant with truth and nature, and whether they do not
there see, faithfully reflected from the Moon, the errors of the learned
on Earth, and "the follies of the wise?"

JOSEPH ATTERLEY.

_Long-Island, September_, 1827.

VOYAGE TO THE MOON.

CHAPTER I.

_Atterley's birth and education--He makes a voyage--Founders off the
Burman coast--Adventures in that Empire--Meets with a learned Brahmin
from Benares._

Being about to give a narrative of my singular adventures to the world,
which, I foresee, will be greatly divided about their authenticity,
I will premise something of my early history, that those to whom I am
not personally known, may be better able to ascertain what credit is
due to the facts which rest only on my own assertion.

I was born in the village of Huntingdon, on Long-Island, on the 11th day
of May, 1786. Joseph Atterley, my father, formerly of East Jersey, as it
was once called, had settled in this place about a year before, in
consequence of having married my mother, Alice Schermerhorn, the only
daughter of a snug Dutch farmer in the neighbourhood. By means of the
portion he received with my mother, together with his own earnings,
he was enabled to quit the life of a sailor, to which he had been bred,
and to enter into trade. After the death of his father-in-law, by whose
will he received a handsome accession to his property, he sought, in the
city of New-York, a theatre better suited to his enlarged capital. He
here engaged in foreign trade; and, partaking of the prosperity which
then attended American comme
rce, he gradually extended his business, and
finally embarked in our new branch of traffic to the East Indies and
China. He was now very generally respected, both for his wealth and fair
dealing; was several years a director in one of the insurance offices;
was president of the society for relieving the widows and orphans of
distressed seamen; and, it is said, might have been chosen alderman,
if he had not refused, on the ground that he did not think himself
qualified.

My father was not one of those who set little value on book learning,
from their own consciousness of not possessing it: on the contrary, he
would often remark, that as he felt the want of a liberal education
himself, he was determined to bestow one on me. I was accordingly, at
an early age, put to a grammar school of good repute in my native village,
the master of which, I believe, is now a member of Congress; and, at the
age of seventeen, was sent to Princeton, to prepare myself for some
profession. During my third year at that place, in one of my excursions
to Philadelphia, and for which I was always inventing pretexts, I became
acquainted with one of those faces and forms which, in a youth of twenty,
to see, admire, and love, is one and the same thing. My attentions were
favourably received. I soon became desperately in love; and, in spite of
the advice of my father and entreaties of my mother, who had formed other
schemes for me nearer home, I was married on the anniversary of my
twenty-first year.

It was not until the first trance of bliss was over, that I began to
think seriously on the course of life I was to pursue. From the time
that my mind had run on love and matrimony, I had lost all relish for
serious study; and long before that time, I had felt a sentiment bordering
on contempt for the pursuits of my father. Besides, he had already taken
my two younger brothers into the counting-house with him. I therefore
prevailed on my indulgent parent, with the aid of my mother's intercession,
to purchase for me a neat country-seat near Hunting
don, which presented a
beautiful view of the Sound, and where, surrounded by the scenes of my
childhood, I promised myself to realise, with my Susanna, that life of
tranquil felicity which fancy, warmed by love, so vividly depicts.

If we did not meet with all that we had expected, it was because we had
expected too much. The happiest life, like the purest atmosphere, has
its clouds as well as its sunshine; and what is worse, we never fully
know the value of the one, until we have felt the inconvenience of the
other. In the cultivation of my farm--in educating our children, a son
and two daughters, in reading, music, painting--and in occasional visits
to our friends in New-York and Philadelphia, seventeen years glided
swiftly and imperceptibly away; at the end of which time death, in
depriving me of an excellent wife, made a wreck of my hopes and enjoyments.
For the purpose of seeking that relief to my feelings which change of
place only could afford, I determined to make a sea voyage; and, as one
of my father's vessels was about to sail for Canton, I accordingly
embarked on board the well-known ship the _Two Brothers_, captain
Thomas, and left Sandy-hook on the 5th day of June, 1822, having first
placed my three children under the care of my brother William.

I will not detain the reader with a detail of the first incidents of
our voyage, though they were sufficiently interesting at the time they
occurred, and were not wanting in the usual variety. We had, in singular
succession, dead calms and fresh breezes, stiff gales and sudden squalls;
saw sharks, flying-fish, and dolphins; spoke several vessels: had a
visit from Neptune when we crossed the Line, and were compelled to
propitiate his favour with some gallons of spirits, which he seems
always to find a very agreeable change from sea water; and touched at
Table Bay and at Madagascar.

On the whole, our voyage was comparatively pleasant and prosperous, until
the 24th of October; when, off the mouths of the Ganges, after a fine
clear autumnal day, just about sun
set, a small dark speck was seen in
the eastern horizon by our experienced and watchful captain, who, after
noticing it for a few moments, pronounced that we should have a hurricane.
The rapidity with which this speck grew into a dense cloud, and spread
itself in darkness over the heavens, as well as the increasing swell of
the ocean before we felt the wind, soon convinced us he was right. No
time was lost in lowering our topmasts, taking double reefs, and making
every thing snug, to meet the fury of the tempest. I thought I had
already witnessed all that was terrific on the ocean; but what I had
formerly seen, had been mere child's play compared with this. Never can
I forget the impression that was made upon me by the wild uproar of the
elements. The smooth, long swell of the waves gradually changed into an
agitated frothy surface, which constant flashes of lightning presented
to us in all its horror; and in the mean time the wind whistled through
the rigging, and the ship creaked as if she was every minute going to
pieces.

About midnight the storm was at its height, and I gave up all for lost.
The wind, which first blew from the south-west, was then due south, and
the sailors said it began to abate a little before day: but I saw no
great difference until about three in the afternoon; soon after which
the clouds broke away, and showed us the sun setting in cloudless majesty,
while the billows still continued their stupendous rolling, but with a
heavy movement, as if, after such mighty efforts, they were seeking
repose in the bosom of their parent ocean. It soon became almost calm;
a light western breeze barely swelled our sails, and gently wafted us
to the land, which we could faintly discern to the north-east. Our ship
had been so shaken in the tempest, and was so leaky, that captain Thomas
thought it prudent to make for the first port we could reach.

At dawn we found ourselves in full view of a coast, which, though not
personally known to the captain, he pronounced by his charts to be a
part of the Burmese E
mpire, and in the neighbourhood of Mergui, on the
Martaban coast. The leak had now increased to an alarming extent, so
that we found it would be impossible to carry the ship safe into port.
We therefore hastily threw our clothes, papers, and eight casks of
silver, into the long-boat; and before we were fifty yards from the
ship, we saw her go down. Some of the underwriters in New York, as I
have since learnt, had the conscience to contend that we left the ship
sooner than was necessary, and have suffered themselves to be sued for
the sums they had severally insured. It was a little after midday when
we reached the town, which is perched on a high bluff, overlooking
the coasts, and contains about a thousand houses, built of bamboo,
and covered with palm leaves. Our dress, appearance, language, and
the manner of our arrival, excited great surprise among the natives,
and the liveliest curiosity; but with these sentiments some evidently
mingled no very friendly feelings. The Burmese were then on the eve
of a rupture with the East India Company, a fact which we had not before
known; and mistaking us for English, they supposed, or affected to
suppose, that we belonged to a fleet which was about to invade them,
and that our ship had been sunk before their eyes, by the tutelar divinity
of the country. We were immediately carried before their governor,
or chief magistrate, who ordered our baggage to be searched, and finding
that it consisted principally of silver, he had no doubt of our hostile
intentions. He therefore sent all of us, twenty-two in number, to prison,
separating, however, each one from the rest. My companions were released
the following spring, as I have since learnt, by the invading army of
Great Britain; but it was my ill fortune (if, indeed, after what has
since happened, I can so regard it) to be taken for an officer of high
rank, and to be sent, the third day afterwards, far into the interior,
that I might be more safely kept, and either used as a hostage or offered
for ransom, as circumstances should
 render advantageous.

The reader is, no doubt, aware that the Burman Empire lies beyond the
Ganges, between the British possessions and the kingdom of Siam; and
that the natives nearly assimilate with those of Hindostan, in language,
manners, religion, and character, except that they are more hardy and
warlike.

I was transported very rapidly in a palanquin, (a sort of decorated
litter,) carried on the shoulders of four men, who, for greater despatch,
were changed every three hours. In this way I travelled thirteen days,
in which time we reached a little village in the mountainous district
between the Irawaddi and Saloon rivers, where I was placed under the
care of an inferior magistrate, called a Mirvoon, who there exercised
the chief authority.

This place, named Mozaun, was romantically situated in a fertile valley,
that seemed to be completely shut in by the mountains. A small river,
a branch of the Saloon, entered it from the west, and, after running
about four miles in nearly a straight direction, turned suddenly round
a steep hill to the south, and was entirely lost to view. The village
was near a gap in the mountain, through which the river seemed to have
forced its way, and consisted of about forty or fifty huts, built of
the bamboo cane and reeds. The house of my landlord was somewhat larger
and better than the rest. It stood on a little knoll that overlooked
the village, the valley, the stream that ran through it, and commanded
a distant view of the country beyond the gap. It was certainly a lovely
little spot, as it now appears to my imagination; but when the landscape
was new to me, I was in no humour to relish its beauties, and when my
mind was more in a state to appreciate them, they had lost their novelty.

My keeper, whose name was Sing Fou, and who, from a long exercise of
magisterial authority, was rough and dictatorial, behaved to me somewhat
harshly at first; but my patient submission so won his confidence and
good will, that I soon became a great favourite; was regarded more as
one of his f
amily than as a prisoner, and was allowed by him every
indulgence consistent with my safe custody. But the difficulties in the
way of my escape were so great, that little restraint was imposed on
my motions. The narrow defile in the gap, through which the river rushed
like a torrent, was closed with a gate. The mountains, by which the
valley was hemmed in, were utterly impassable, thickly set as they were
with jungle, consisting of tangled brier, thorn and forest trees, of
which those who have never been in a tropical climate can form no adequate
idea. In some places it would be difficult to penetrate more than a
mile in the day; during which time the traveller would be perpetually
tormented by noxious insects, and in constant dread of beasts of prey.

The only outlet from this village was by passing down the valley along
the settlements, and following the course of the stream; so that there
was no other injunction laid on me, than not to extend my rambles far
in that direction. Sing Fou's household consisted of his wife, whom I
rarely saw, four small children, and six servants; and here I enjoyed
nearly as great a portion of happiness as in any part of my life.

It had been one of my favourite amusements to ramble towards a part of
the western ridge, which rose in a cone about a mile and a half from the
village, and there ascending to some comparatively level spot, or point
projecting from its side, enjoy the beautiful scenery which lay before
me, and the evening breeze, which has such a delicious freshness in a
tropical climate.

Nor was this all. In a deep sequestered nook, formed by two spurs of this
mountain, there lived a venerable Hindoo, whom the people of the village
called the Holy Hermit. The favourable accounts I received of his
character, as well as his odd course of life, made me very desirous
of becoming acquainted with him; and, as he was often visited by the
villagers, I found no difficulty in getting a conductor to his cell. His
character for sanctity, together with a venerable beard, might have

discouraged advances towards an acquaintance, if his lively piercing eye,
a countenance expressive of great mildness and kindness of disposition,
and his courteous manners, had not yet more strongly invited it. He was
indeed not averse to society, though he had seemed thus to fly from it;
and was so great a favourite with his neighbours, that his cell would
have been thronged with visitors, but for the difficulty of the approach
to it. As it was, it was seldom resorted to, except for the purpose of
obtaining his opinion and counsel on all the serious concerns of his
neighbours. He prescribed for the sick, and often provided the medicine
they required--expounded the law--adjusted disputes--made all their little
arithmetical calculations--gave them moral instruction--and, when he
could not afford them relief in their difficulties, he taught them
patience, and gave them consolation. He, in short, united, for the simple
people by whom he was surrounded, the functions of lawyer, physician,
schoolmaster, and divine, and richly merited the reverential respect in
which they held him, as well as their little presents of eggs, fruit, and
garden stuff.

From the first evening that I joined the party which I saw clambering up
the path that led to the Hermit's cell, I found myself strongly attached
to this venerable man, and the more so, from the mystery which hung
around his history. It was agreed that he was not a Burmese. None deemed
to know certainly where he was born, or why he came thither. His own
account was, that he had devoted himself to the service of God, and in
his pilgrimage over the east, had selected this as a spot particularly
favourable to the life of quiet and seclusion he wished to lead.

There was one part of his story to which I could scarcely give credit.
It was said that in the twelve or fifteen years he had resided in this
place, he had been occasionally invisible for months together, and no
one could tell why he disappeared, or whither he had gone. At these
times his cell was closed; and although no
ne ventured to force their
way into it, those who were the most prying could hear no sound indicating
that he was within. Various were the conjectures formed on the subject.
Some supposed that he withdrew from the sight of men for the purpose
of more fervent prayer and more holy meditation; others, that he visited
his home, or some other distant country. The more superstitious believed
that he had, by a kind of metempsychosis, taken a new shape, which, by
some magical or supernatural power, he could assume and put off at
pleasure. This opinion was perhaps the most prevalent, as it gained a
colour with these simple people, from the chemical and astronomical
instruments he possessed. In these he evidently took great pleasure,
and by their means he acquired some of the knowledge by which he so
often excited their admiration.

He soon distinguished me from the rest of his visitors, by addressing
questions to me relative to my history and adventures; and I, in turn,
was gratified to have met with one who took an interest in my concerns,
and who alone, of all I had here met with, could either enter into my
feelings or comprehend my opinions. Our conversations were carried on
in English, which he spoke with facility and correctness. We soon found
ourselves so much to each other's taste, that there was seldom an evening
that I did not make him a visit, and pass an hour or two in his company.

I learnt from him that he was born and bred at Benares, in Hindostan;
that he had been intended for the priesthood, and had been well instructed
in the literature of the east. That a course of untoward circumstances,
upon which he seemed unwilling to dwell, had changed his destination,
and made him a wanderer on the face of the earth. That in the neighbouring
kingdom of Siam he had formed an intimacy with a learned French Jesuit,
who had not only taught him his language, but imparted to him a knowledge
of much of the science of Europe, its institutions and manners. That after
the death of this friend, he had renewed his wanderings; 
and having been
detained in this village by a fit of sickness for some weeks, he was
warned that it was time to quit his rambling life. This place being
recommended to him, both by its quiet seclusion, and the unsophisticated
manners of its inhabitants, he determined to pass the remnant of his days
here, and, by devoting them to the purposes of piety, charity, and
science, to discharge his duty to his Creator, his species, and himself;
"for the love of knowledge," he added, "has long been my chief source of
selfish enjoyment."

Our tastes and sentiments accorded in so many points, that our acquaintance
ripened by degrees into the closest friendship. We were both
strangers--both unfortunate; and were the only individuals here who had any
knowledge of letters, or of distant parts of the world. These are, indeed,
the main springs of that sympathy, without which there is no love among
men. It is being overwise, to treat with contempt what mankind hold in
respect: and philosophy teaches us not to extinguish our feelings, but to
correct and refine them. My visits to the hermitage were frequently renewed
at first, because they afforded me the relief of variety, whilst his
intimate knowledge of men and things--his remarkable sagacity and good
sense--his air of mingled piety and benignity,--cheated me into
forgetfulness of my situation. As these gradually yielded to the lenitive
power of time, I sought his conversation for the positive pleasure it
afforded, and at last it became the chief source of my happiness. Day after
day, and month after month, glided on in this gentle, unvarying current,
for more than three years; during which period he had occasionally thrown
out dark hints that the time would come when I should be restored to
liberty, and that he had an important secret, which he would one day
communicate. I should have been more tantalized with the expectations that
these remarks were calculated to raise, had I not suspected them to be a
good-natured artifice, to save me from despondency, as they were never made

except when he saw me looking serious and thoughtful.

CHAPTER II.

_The Brahmin's illness--He reveals an important secret to Atterley--
Curious information concerning the Moon--The Glonglims--They plan a
voyage to the Moon._

About this period, one afternoon in the month of March, when I repaired
to the hermitage as usual, I found my venerable friend stretched on his
humble pallet, breathing very quickly, and seemingly in great pain. He
was labouring under a pleurisy, which is not unfrequent in the mountainous
region, at this season. He told me that his disease had not yielded to
the ordinary remedies which he had tried when he first felt its approach,
and that he considered himself to be dangerously ill. "I am, however,"
he added, "prepared to die. Sit down on that block, and listen to what
I shall say to you. Though I shall quit this state of being for another
and a better, I confess that I was alarmed at the thought of expiring,
before I had an opportunity of seeing and conversing with you. I am the
depository of a secret, that I believe is known to no other living mortal.
I once determined that it should die with me; and had I not met with you,
it certainly should. But from our first acquaintance, my heart has been
strongly attracted towards you; and as soon as I found you possessed
of qualities to inspire esteem as well as regard, I felt disposed to
give you this proof of my confidence. Still I hesitated. I first wished
to deliberate on the probable effects of my disclosure upon the condition
of society. I saw that it might produce evil, as well as good; but on
weighing the two together, I have satisfied myself that the good will
preponderate, and have determined to act accordingly. Take this key,
(stretching out his feverish hand,) and after waiting two hours, in
which time the medicine I have taken will have either produced a good
effect, or put an end to my sufferings, you may then open that blue
chest in the corner. It has a false bottom. On removing the paper which
covers it, you will find the manuscri
pt containing the important secret,
together with some gold pieces, which I have saved for the day of
need--because--(and he smiled in spite of his sufferings)--because
hoarding is one of the pleasures of old men. Take them both, and use
them discreetly. When I am gone, I request you, my friend, to discharge
the last sad duties of humanity, and to see me buried according to the
usages of my caste. The simple beings around me will then behold that
I am mortal like themselves. And let this precious relic of female
loveliness and worth, (taking a small picture, set in gold, from his
bosom,) be buried with me. It has been warmed by my heart's blood for
twenty-five years: let it be still near that heart when it ceases
to beat. I have yet more to say to you; but my strength is too much
exhausted."

The good old man here closed his eyes, with an expression of patient
resignation, and rather as if he courted sleep than felt inclined to it:
and, after shutting the door of his cell, I repaired to his little
garden, to pass the allotted two hours. Left to my meditations, when
I thought that I was probably about to be deprived for ever of the
Hermit's conversation and society, I felt the wretchedness of my situation
recur with all its former force. I sat down on a smooth rock under a
tamarind tree, the scene of many an interesting conference between the
Brahmin and myself; and I cast my eyes around--but how changed was every
thing before me! I no longer regarded the sparkling eddies of the little
cascade which fell down a steep rock at the upper end of the garden, and
formed a pellucid basin below. The gay flowers and rich foliage of this
genial climate--the bright plumage and cheerful notes of the birds--were
all there; but my mind was not in a state to relish them. I arose, and in
extreme agitation rambled over this little Eden, in which I had passed so
many delightful hours.

Before the allotted time had elapsed--shall I confess it?--my fears for
the Hermit were overcome by those that were purely selfish. It occurred
to m
e, if he should thus suddenly die, and I be found alone in his cell,
I might be charged with being his murderer; and my courage, which, from
long inaction, had sadly declined of late, deserted me at the thought.
After the most torturing suspense, the dial at length showed me that the
two hours had elapsed, and I hastened to the cell.

I paused a moment at the door, afraid to enter, or even look in; made one
or two steps, and hearing no sound, concluded that all was over with the
Hermit, and that my own doom was sealed. My delight was inexpressible,
therefore, when I perceived that he still breathed, and when, on drawing
nearer, I found that he slept soundly. In a moment I passed from misery
to bliss. I seated myself by his side, and there remained for more than
an hour, enjoying the transition of my feelings. At length he awoke, and
casting on me a look of placid benignity, said,--"Atterley, my time is
not yet come. Though resigned to death, I am content to live. The worst
is over. I am already almost restored to health." I then administered to
him some refreshments, and, after a while, left him to repose. On again
repairing to the garden, every object assumed its wonted appearance. The
fragrance of the orange and the jasmine was no longer lost to me. The
humming birds, which swarmed round the flowering cytisus and the beautiful
water-fall, once more delighted the eye and the ear. I took my usual
bath, as the sun was sinking below the mountain; and, finding the Hermit
still soundly sleeping, I threw myself on a seat, under the shelter of
some bamboos, fell asleep, and did not awake until late the next morning.

When I arose, I found the good Brahmin up, and, though much weakened by
his disease, able to walk about. He told me that the Mirvoon, uneasy at
my not returning as usual in the evening, had sent in search of me, and
that the servant, finding me safe, was content to return without me. He
advised me, however, not to repeat the same cause of alarm. Sing Fou, on
hearing my explanation, readily forgave me for t
he uneasiness I had
caused him. After a few days, the Brahmin recovered his ordinary health
and strength; and having attended him at an earlier hour than usual,
according to his request on the previous evening, he thus addressed
me:--

"I have already told you, my dear Atterley, that I was born and educated
at Benares, and that science is there more thoroughly understood and
taught than the people of the west are aware of. We have, for many
thousands of years, been good astronomers, chymists, mathematicians, and
philosophers. We had discovered the secret of gunpowder, the magnetic
attraction, the properties of electricity, long before they were heard of
in Europe. We know more than we have revealed; and much of our knowledge
is deposited in the archives of the caste to which I belong; but, for
want of a language generally understood and easily learnt, (for these
records are always written in the Sanscrit, that is no longer a spoken
language,) and the diffusion which is given by the art of printing,
these secrets of science are communicated only to a few, and sometimes
even sleep with their authors, until a subsequent discovery, under more
favourable circumstances, brings them again to light.

"It was at this seat of science that I learnt, from one of our sages,
the physical truth which I am now about to communicate, and which he
discovered, partly by his researches into the writings of ancient Pundits,
and partly by his own extraordinary sagacity. There is a principle of
repulsion as well as gravitation in the earth. It causes fire to rise
upwards. It is exhibited in electricity. It occasions water-spouts,
volcanoes, and earthquakes. After much labour and research, this principle
has been found embodied in a metallic substance, which is met with in the
mountain in which we are, united with a very heavy earth; and this
circumstance had great influence in inducing me to settle myself here.

"This metal, when separated and purified, has as great a tendency to
fly off from the earth, as a piece of gold or lead has to
 approach it.
After making a number of curious experiments with it, we bethought
ourselves of putting it to some use, and soon contrived, with the aid
of it, to make cars and ascend into the air. We were very secret in
these operations; for our unhappy country having then recently fallen
under the subjection of the British nation, we apprehended that if we
divulged our arcanum, they would not only fly away with all our treasures,
whether found in palace or pagoda, but also carry off the inhabitants,
to make them slaves in their colonies, as their government had not then
abolished the African slave trade.

"After various trials and many successive improvements, in which our
desires increased with our success, we determined to penetrate the
aerial void as far as we could, providing for that purpose an apparatus,
with which you will become better acquainted hereafter. In the course
of our experiments, we discovered that this same metal, which was repelled
from the earth, was in the same degree attracted towards the moon; for in
one of our excursions, still aiming to ascend higher than we had ever
done before, we were actually carried to that satellite; and if we had
not there fallen into a lake, and our machine had not been water-tight,
we must have been dashed to pieces or drowned. You will find in this
book," he added, presenting me with a small volume, bound in green
parchment, and fastened with silver clasps, "a minute detail of the
apparatus to be provided, and the directions to be pursued in making
this wonderful voyage. I have written it since I satisfied my mind that
my fears of British rapacity were unfounded, and that I should do more
good than harm by publishing the secret. But still I am not sure,"
he added, with one of his faint but significant smiles, "that I am
not actuated by a wish to immortalize my name; for where is the mortal
who would be indifferent to this object, if he thought he could attain it?
Read the book at your leisure, and study it."

I listened to this recital with astonishment; and d
oubted at first,
whether the Brahmin's late severe attack had not had the effect of
unsettling his brain: but on looking in his face, the calm self-possession
and intelligence which it exhibited, dispelled the momentary impression.
I was all impatience to know the adventures he met with in the moon,
asking him fifty questions in a breath, but was most anxious to learn
if it had inhabitants, and what sort of beings they were.

"Yes," said he, "the moon has inhabitants, pretty much the same as the
earth, of which they believe their globe to have been formerly a part.
But suspend your questions, and let me give you a recital of the most
remarkable things I saw there."

I checked my impatience, and listened with all my ears to the wonders
he related. He went on to inform me that the inhabitants of the moon
resembled those of the earth, in form, stature, features, and manners,
and were evidently of the same species, as they did not differ more than
did the Hottentot from the Parisian. That they had similar passions,
propensities, and pursuits, but differed greatly in manners and habits.
They had more activity, but less strength: they were feebler in mind as
well as body. But the most curious part of his information was, that a
large number of them were born without any intellectual vigour, and
wandered about as so many automatons, under the care of the government,
until they were illuminated with the mental ray from some earthly brains,
by means of the mysterious influence which the moon is known to exercise
on our planet. But in this case the inhabitant of the earth loses what
the inhabitant of the moon gains--the ordinary portion of understanding
allotted to one mortal being thus divided between two; and, as might be
expected, seeing that the two minds were originally the same, there is a
most exact conformity between the man of the earth and his counterpart in
the moon, in all their principles of action and modes of thinking.

These Glonglims, as they are called, after they have been thus imbued
with intellect, are
 held in peculiar respect by the vulgar, and are
thought to be in every way superior to those whose understandings are
entire. The laws by which two objects, so far apart, operate on each
other, have been, as yet, but imperfectly developed, and the wilder
their freaks, the more they are the objects of wonder and admiration.
"The science of _lunarology_," he observed, "is yet in its infancy.
But in the three voyages I have made to the moon, I have acquired so
many new facts, and imparted so many to the learned men of that planet,
that it is, without doubt, the subject of their active speculations
at this time, and will, probably, assume a regular form long before the
new science of phrenology of which you tell me, and which it must, in
time, supersede. Now and then, though very rarely, the man of the earth
regains the intellect he has lost; in which case his lunar counterpart
returns to his former state of imbecility. Both parties are entirely
unconscious of the change--one, of what he has lost, and the other of
what he has gained."

The Brahmin then added: "Though our party are the only voyagers of which
authentic history affords any testimony, yet it is probable, from obscure
hints in some of our most ancient writings in the Sanscrit, that the
voyage has been made in remote periods of antiquity; and the Lunarians
have a similar tradition. While, in the revolutions which have so changed
the affairs of mankind on our globe, (and probably in its satellite,)
the art has been lost, faint traces of its existence may be perceived
in the opinions of the vulgar, and in many of their ordinary forms of
expression. Thus it is generally believed throughout all Asia, that the
moon has an influence on the brain; and when a man is of insane mind, we
call him a lunatic. One of the curses of the common people is, 'May the
moon eat up your brains;' and in China they say of a man who has done
any act of egregious folly, 'He was gathering wool in the moon.'"

I was struck with these remarks, and told the Hermit that the language
of 
Europe afforded the same indirect evidence of the fact he mentioned:
that my own language especially, abounded with expressions which could
be explained on no other hypothesis;--for, besides the terms "lunacy,"
"lunatic," and the supposed influence of the moon on the brain, when we
see symptoms of a disordered intellect, we say the mind _wanders_,
which evidently alludes to a part of it rambling to a distant region, as
is the moon. We say too, a man is "_out of his head_," that is, his
mind being in another man's head, must of course be out of his own.
To "know no more than the man in the moon," is a proverbial expression
for ignorance, and is without meaning, unless it be considered to refer
to the Glonglims. We say that an insane man is "distracted;" by which we
mean that his mind is drawn two different ways. So also, we call a
lunatic _a man beside himself_, which most distinctly expresses the two
distinct bodies his mind now animates. There are, moreover, many other
analogous expressions, as "moonstruck," "deranged," "extravagant," and
some others, which, altogether, form a mass of concurring testimony that
it is impossible to resist.

"Be that as it may," said he, "whether the voyage has been made in former
times or not, is of little importance: it is sufficient for us to know
that it has been effected in our time, and can be effected again. I am
anxious to repeat the voyage, for the purpose of ascertaining some facts,
about which I have been lately speculating; and I wish, besides, to
afford you ocular demonstration of the wonders I have disclosed; for,
in spite of your good opinion of my veracity, I have sometimes perceived
symptoms of incredulity about you, and I do not wonder at it."

The love of the marvellous, and the wish for a change, which had long
slumbered in my bosom, were now suddenly awakened, and I eagerly caught
at his proposal.

"When can we set out, father?" said I.

"Not so fast," replied he; "we have a great deal of preparation to make.
Our apparatus requires the best workmanship, and we 
cannot here command
either first-rate articles or materials, without incurring the risk of
suspicion and interruption. While most of the simple villagers are
kindly disposed towards me, there are a few who regard me with distrust
and malevolence, and would readily avail themselves of an opportunity
to bring me under the censure of the priesthood and the government.
Besides, the governor of Mergui would probably be glad to lay hold of
any plausible evidence against you, as affording him the best chance of
avoiding any future reckoning either with you or his superiors. We must
therefore be very secret in our plans. I know an ingenious artificer
in copper and other metals, whose only child I was instrumental in curing
of scrofula, and in whose fidelity, as well as good will, I can safely
rely. But we must give him time. He can construct our machine at home,
and we must take our departure from that place in the night."

CHAPTER III.

_The Brahmin and Atterley prepare for their voyage--Description of their
machine--Incidents of the voyage--The appearance of the earth; Africa;
Greece--The Brahmin's speculations on the different races of men--National
character._

Having thus formed our plan of operations, we the next day proceeded to
put them in execution. The coppersmith agreed to undertake the work
we wanted done, for a moderate compensation; but we did not think it
prudent to inform him of our object, which he supposed was to make some
philosophical experiment. It was forthwith arranged that he should
occasionally visit the Hermit, to receive instructions, as if for the
purpose of asking medical advice. During this interval my mind was
absorbed with our project; and when in company, I was so thoughtful
and abstracted, that it has since seemed strange to me that Sing Fou's
suspicions that I was planning my escape were not more excited. At
length, by dint of great exertion, in about three months every thing
was in readiness, and we determined on the following night to set out
on our perilous expedition.

The machine i
n which we proposed to embark, was a copper vessel, that
would have been an exact cube of six feet, if the corners and edges
had not been rounded off. It had an opening large enough to receive
our bodies, which was closed by double sliding pannels, with quilted
cloth between them. When these were properly adjusted, the machine
was perfectly air-tight, and strong enough, by means of iron bars running
alternately inside and out, to resist the pressure of the atmosphere,
when the machine should be exhausted of its air, as we took the precaution
to prove by the aid of an air-pump. On the top of the copper chest
and on the outside, we had as much of the lunar metal (which I shall
henceforth call _lunarium_) as we found, by calculation and experiment,
would overcome the weight of the machine, as well as its contents,
and take us to the moon on the third day. As the air which the machine
contained, would not be sufficient for our respiration more than about
six hours, and the chief part of the space we were to pass through was
a mere void, we provided ourselves with a sufficient supply, by condensing
it in a small globular vessel, made partly of iron and partly of lunarium,
to take off its weight. On my return, I gave Mr. Jacob Perkins, who
is now in England, a hint of this plan of condensation, and it has
there obtained him great celebrity. This fact I should not have thought
it worth while to mention, had he not taken the sole merit of the
invention to himself; at least I cannot hear that in his numerous public
notices he has ever mentioned my name.

But to return. A small circular window, made of a single piece of thick
clear glass, was neatly fitted on each of the six sides. Several pieces
of lead were securely fastened to screws which passed through the bottom
of the machine; as well as a thick plank. The screws were so contrived,
that by turning them in one direction, the pieces of lead attached
to them were immediately disengaged from the hooks with which they
were connected. The pieces of lunarium were fastened 
in like manner
to screws, which passed through the top of the machine; so that by
turning them in one direction, those metallic pieces would fly into
the air with the velocity of a rocket. The Brahmin took with him a
thermometer, two telescopes, one of which projected through the top
of the machine, and the other through the bottom; a phosphoric lamp,
pen, ink, and paper, and some light refreshments sufficient to supply
us for some days.

The moon was then in her third quarter, and near the zenith: it was, of
course, a little after midnight, and when the coppersmith and his family
were in their soundest sleep, that we entered the machine. In about an hour
more we had the doors secured, and every thing arranged in its place, when,
cutting the cords which fastened us to the ground, by means of small steel
blades which worked in the ends of other screws, we rose from the earth
with a whizzing sound, and a sensation at first of very rapid ascent: but
after a short time, we were scarcely sensible of any motion in the machine,
except when we changed our places.

The ardent curiosity I had felt to behold the wonderful things which the
Brahmin related, and the hope of returning soon to my children and native
country, had made me most impatient for the moment of departure; during
which time the hazards and difficulties of the voyage were entirely
overlooked: but now that the moment of execution had arrived, and I found
myself shut up in this small chest, and about to enter on a voyage so new,
so strange, and beset with such a variety of dangers, I will not deny that
my courage failed me, and I would gladly have compromised to return to
Mozaun, and remain there quietly all the rest of my days. But shame
restrained me, and I dissembled my emotions.

At our first shock on leaving the earth, my fears were at their height; but
after about two hours, I had tolerably well regained my composure, to which
the returning light of day greatly contributed. By this time we had a full
view of the rising sun, pouring a flood of light ove
r one half of the
circular landscape below us, and leaving the rest in shade. While those
natural objects, the rivers and mountains, land and sea, were fast receding
from our view, our horizon kept gradually extending as we mounted: but ere
10 o'clock this effect ceased, and the broad disc of the earth began
sensibly to diminish.

It is impossible to describe my sensations of mingled awe and admiration at
the splendid spectacle beneath me, so long as the different portions of the
earth's surface were plainly distinguishable. The novelty of the situation
in which I found myself, as well as its danger, prevented me indeed at
first from giving more than a passing attention to the magnificent scene;
but after a while, encouraged by the Brahmin's exhortation, and yet more by
the example of his calm and assured air, I was able to take a more
leisurely view of it. At first, as we partook of the diurnal motion of the
earth, and our course was consequently oblique, the same portion of the
globe from which we had set out, continued directly under us; and as the
eye stretched in every direction over Asia and its seas, continents and
islands, they appeared like pieces of green velvet, the surrounding ocean
like a mirror, and the Ganges, the Hoogley, and the great rivers of China,
like threads of silver.

About 11 o'clock it was necessary to get a fresh supply of air, when
my companion cautiously turned one of the two stop-cocks to let out
that which was no longer fit for respiration, requesting me, at the
same time, to turn the other, to let in a fresh supply of condensed
air; but being awkward in the first attempt to follow his directions,
I was so affected by the exhaustion of the air through the vent now
made for it, that I fainted; and having, at the same time, given freer
passage to the condensed air than I ought, we must in a few seconds
have lost our supply, and thus have inevitably perished, had not the
watchful Hermit seen the mischief, and repaired it almost as soon as
it occurred. This accident, and the various ag
itations my mind had
undergone in the course of the day, so overpowered me, that at an early
hour in the afternoon I fell into a profound sleep, and did not awake
again for eight hours.

While I slept, the good Brahmin had contrived to manage both stop-cocks
himself. The time of my waking would have been about 11 o'clock at night,
if we had continued on the earth; but we were now in a region where there
was no alternation of day and night, but one unvarying cloudless sun. Its
heat, however, was not in proportion to its brightness; for we found that
after we had ascended a few miles from the earth, it was becoming much
colder, and the Brahmin had recourse to a chemical process for evolving
heat, which soon made us comfortable: but after we were fairly in the great
aerial void, the temperature of our machine showed no tendency to change.

The sensations caused by the novelty of my situation, at first checked
those lively and varied trains of thought which the bird's-eye view of so
many countries passing in review before us, was calculated to excite: yet,
after I had become more familiar with it, I contemplated the beautiful
exhibition with inexpressible delight. Besides, a glass of cordial, as well
as the calm, confiding air of the Brahmin, contributed to restore me to my
self-possession. The reader will recollect, that although our motion, at
first, partook of that of the earth's on its axis, and although the
_positive_ effect was the same on our course, the _relative_ effect was
less and less as we ascended, and consequently, that after a certain
height, every part of the terraqueous globe would present itself to our
view in succession, as we rapidly receded from it. At 9 o'clock, the whole
of India was a little to the west of us, and we saw, as in a map, that
fertile and populous region, which has been so strangely reduced to
subjection, by a company of merchants belonging to a country on the
opposite side of the globe--a country not equal to one-fourth of it, in
extent or population. Its rivers were like small 
filaments of silver; the
Red Sea resembled a narrow plate of the same metal. The peninsula of India
was of a darker, and Arabia of a light and more grayish green.

The sun's rays striking obliquely on the Atlantic, emitted an effulgence
that was dazzling to the eyes. For two or three hours the appearance
of the earth did not greatly vary, the wider extent of surface we could
survey, compensating for our greater distance; and indeed at that time
we could not see the whole horizon, without putting our eyes close to
the glass.

When the Brahmin saw that I had overcome my first surprise, and had
acquired somewhat of his own composure, he manifested a disposition
to beguile the time with conversation. "Look through the telescope,"
said he, "a little from the sun, and observe the continent of Africa,
which is presenting itself to our view." I took a hasty glance over
it, and perceived that its northern edge was fringed with green; then
a dull white belt marked the great Sahara, or Desert, and then it exhibited
a deep green again, to its most southern extremity. I tried in vain
to discover the pyramids, for our telescope had not sufficient power
to show them.

I observed to him, that less was known of this continent than of the
others: that a spirit of lively curiosity had been excited by the
western nations of Europe, to become acquainted with the inhabited
parts of the globe; but that all the efforts yet made, had still left
a large portion almost entirely unknown. I asked if he did not think it
probable that some of the nations in the interior of Africa were more
advanced in civilization than those on the coast, whose barbarous custom
of making slaves of their prisoners, Europeans had encouraged and
perpetuated, by purchasing them.

"No, no," said he; "the benefits of civilization could not have been so
easily confined, but would have spread themselves over every part of that
continent, or at least as far as the Great Desert, if they had ever
existed. The intense heat of a climate, lying on each side of the Line,
at 
once disinclines men to exertion, and renders it unnecessary. Vegetable
diet is more suited to them than animal, which favours a denser population.
Talent is elicited by the efforts required to overcome difficulties
and hardships; and their natural birth-place is a country of frost and
snow--of tempests--of sterility enough to give a spur to exertion, but
not enough to extinguish hope. Where these difficulties exist, and give
occasion to war and emulation, the powers of the human mind are most
frequently developed."

"Do you think then," said I, "that there is no such thing as natural
inferiority and differences of races?"

"I have been much perplexed by that question," said he. "When I regard
the great masses of mankind, I think there seems to be among them some
characteristic differences. I see that the Europeans have every where
obtained the ascendancy over those who inhabit the other quarters of
the globe. But when I compare individuals, I see always the same passions,
the same motives, the same mental operations; and my opinion is changed.
The same seed becomes a very different plant when sowed in one soil or
another, and put under this or that mode of cultivation."

"And may not," said I, "the very nature of the plant be changed, after a
long continuance of the same culture in the same soil?"

"Why, that is but another mode of stating the question. I rather think,
if it has generally degenerated, it may, by opposite treatment, be also
gradually brought back to its original excellence."

"Who knows, then," said I, "what our missionaries and colonization
societies may effect in Africa."

He inquired of me what these societies were; and on explaining their
history, observed: "By what you tell me, it is indeed a small beginning;
but if they can get this grain of mustard-seed to grow, there is no
saying how much it may multiply. See what a handful of colonists have
done in your own country. A few ship-loads of English have overspread
half a continent; and, from what you tell me, their descendants will
amount, in
 another century, to more than one hundred millions. There is
no rule," he continued, "that can be laid down on this subject, to which
some nations cannot be found to furnish a striking exception. If mere
difficulties were all that were wanting to call forth the intellectual
energies of man, they have their full share on the borders of the Great
Desert. There are in that whitish tract which separates the countries
on the southern shores of the Mediterranean from the rest of Africa,
thousands of human beings at this moment toiling over that dreary ocean
of sand, to whom a draught of fresh water would be a blessing, and the
simplest meal a luxury.

"Perhaps, however, you will say they are so engrossed with the animal
wants of hunger and thirst, that they are incapable of attending to any
thing else. Be it so. But in the interior they are placed in parallel
circumstances with the natives of Europe: they are engaged in struggles
for territory and dominion--for their altars and their homes; and this
state of things, which has made some of them brave and warlike, has made
none poets or painters, historians or philosophers. There, poetry has not
wanted themes of great achievement and noble daring; but heroes have
wanted poets. Nor can we justly ascribe the difference to the enervating
influence of climate, for the temperature of the most southern parts of
Africa differs little from that of Greece. And the tropical nations, too,
of your own continent, the Peruvians, were more improved than those who
inhabited the temperate regions. Besides, though the climate had instilled
softness and feebleness of character, it might also have permitted the
cultivation of the arts, as has been the case with us in Asia. On the
whole, without our being able to pronounce with certainty on the subject,
it does seem probable that some organic difference exists in the various
races of mankind, to which their diversities of moral and intellectual
character may in part be referred."--By this time the Morea and the
Grecian Archipelago were dire
ctly under our telescope.

"Does not Greece," said I, "furnish the clearest proof of the influence
of moral causes on the character of nations? Compare what that country
formerly was, with what it now is. Once superior to all the rest of the
habitable globe, (of which it did not constitute the thousandth part,)
in letters, arts, and arms, and all that distinguishes men from brutes;
not merely in their own estimation, (for all nations are disposed to rate
themselves high enough,) but by the general consent of the rest of the
world. Do not the most improved and civilized of modern states still take
them as their instructors and guides in every species of literature--in
philosophy, history, oratory, poetry, architecture, and sculpture? And
those too, who have attained superiority over the world, in arms, yield
a voluntary subjection to the Greeks in the arts. The cause of their
former excellence and their present inferiority, is no doubt to be found
in their former freedom and their present slavery, and in the loss of
that emulation which seems indispensable to natural greatness."

"Nay," replied he, "I am very far from denying the influence of moral
causes on national character. The history of every country affords
abundant evidence of it. I mean only to say, that though it does much,
it does not do every thing. It seems more reasonable to impute the changes
in national character to the mutable habits and institutions of man,
than to nature, which is always the same. But if we look a little nearer,
we may perhaps perceive, that amidst all those mutations in the character
of nations, there are still some features that are common to the same
people at all times, and which it would therefore be reasonable to
impute to the great unvarying laws of nature. Thus it requires no
extraordinary acuteness of observation, no strained hypothesis, to
perceive a close resemblance between the Germans or the Britons of
antiquity and their modern descendants, after the lapse of eighteen
centuries, and an entire revolution in governme
nt, religion, language,
and laws. And travellers still perceive among the inhabitants of modern
Greece, deteriorated and debased as they are by political servitude,
many of those qualities which distinguished their predecessors: the
same natural acuteness--the same sensibility to pleasure--the same
pliancy of mind and elasticity of body--the same aptitude for the arts
of imitation--and the same striking physiognomy. That bright, serene
sky--that happy combination of land and water, constituting the perfection
of the picturesque, and that balmy softness of its air, which have proved
themselves so propitious to forms of beauty, agility, and strength, also
operate benignantly on the mind which animates them. Whilst the fruit
is still fair to the eye, it is not probable that it has permanently
degenerated in fragrance or flavour. The great diversities of national
character may, perhaps, be attributed principally to moral and accidental
causes, but partly also to climate, and to original diversities in the
different races of man."

CHAPTER IV.

_Continuation of the voyage--View of Europe; Atlantic Ocean; America--
Speculations on the future destiny of the United States--Moral reflections
--Pacific Ocean--Hypothesis on the origin of the Moon._

By this time the whole Mediterranean Sea, which, with the Arabian Gulf,
was seen to separate Africa from Europe and Asia, was full in our view.
The political divisions of these quarters of the world were, of course,
undistinguishable; and few of the natural were discernible by the naked
eye. The Alps were marked by a white streak, though less bright than the
water. By the aid of our glass, we could just discern the Danube, the
Nile, and a river which empties itself into the Gulf of Guinea, and which
I took to be the Niger: but the other streams were not perceptible. The
most conspicuous object of the solid part of the globe, was the Great
Desert before mentioned. The whole of Africa, indeed, was of a lighter hue
than either Asia or Europe, owing, I presume, to its having a great
er
proportion of sandy soil: and I could not avoid contrasting, in my mind,
the colour of these continents, as they now appeared, with the complexions
of their respective inhabitants.

I was struck too, with the vast disproportion which the extent of the
several countries of the earth bore to the part they had acted in history,
and the influence they had exerted on human affairs. The British islands
had diminished to a speck, and France was little larger; yet, a few
years ago it seemed, at least to us in the United States, as if there
were no other nations on the earth. The Brahmin, who was well read in
European history, on my making a remark on this subject, reminded me that
Athens and Sparta had once obtained almost equal celebrity, although
they were so small as not now to be visible. As I slowly passed the
telescope over the face of Europe, I pictured to myself the fat, plodding
Hollander--the patient, contemplative German--the ingenious, sensual
Italian--the temperate Swiss--the haughty, superstitious Spaniard--the
sprightly, self-complacent Frenchman--the sullen and reflecting Englishman
--who monopolize nearly all the science and literature of the earth,
to which they bear so small a proportion. As the Atlantic fell under our
view, two faint circles on each side of the equator, were to be perceived
by the naked eye. They were less bright than the rest of the ocean. The
Brahmin suggested that they might be currents; which brought to my memory
Dr. Franklin's conjecture on the subject, now completely verified by this
circular line of vapour, as it had been previously rendered probable by
the floating substances, which had been occasionally picked up, at great
distances from the places where they had been thrown into the ocean. The
circle was whiter and more distinct, where the Gulf Stream runs parallel
to the American coast, and gradually grew fainter as it passed along the
Banks of Newfoundland, to the coast of Europe, where, taking a southerly
direction, the line of the circle was barely discernible. A simi
lar circle
of vapour, though less defined and complete, was perceived in the South
Atlantic Ocean.

When the coast of my own beloved country first presented itself to my
view, I experienced the liveliest emotions; and I felt so anxious to see
my children and friends, that I would gladly have given up all the
promised pleasures of our expedition. I even ventured to hint my feelings
to the Brahmin; but he, gently rebuking my impatience, said--

"If to return home had been your only object, and not to see what not one
of your nation or race has ever yet seen, you ought to have so informed
me, that we might have arranged matters accordingly. I do not wish you
to return to your country, until you will be enabled to make yourself
welcome and useful there, by what you may see in the lunar world. Take
courage, then, my friend; you have passed the worst; and, as the proverb
says, do not, when you have swallowed the ox, now choke at the tail.
Besides, although we made all possible haste in descending, we should,
ere we reached the surface, find ourselves to the west of your continent,
and be compelled then to choose between some part of Asia or the Pacific
Ocean."

"Let us then proceed," said I, mortified at the imputation on my courage,
and influenced yet more, perhaps, by the last argument. The Brahmin then
tried to soothe my disappointment, by his remarks on my native land.

"I have a great curiosity," said he, "to see a country where a man, by
his labour, can earn as much in a month as will procure him bread, and
meat too, for the whole year; in a week, as will pay his dues to the
government; and in one or two days, as will buy him an acre of good land:
where every man preaches whatever religion he pleases; where the priests
of the different sects never fight, and seldom quarrel; and, stranger
than all, where the authority of government derives no aid from an army,
and that of the priests no support from the law."

I told him, when he should see these things in operation with his
own eyes, as I trusted he would, if it 
pleased heaven to favour our
undertakings, they would appear less strange. I reminded him of the
peculiar circumstances under which our countrymen had commenced their
career.

"In all other countries," said I, "civilization and population have
gone hand in hand; and the necessity of an increasing subsistence
for increasing numbers, has been the parent of useful arts and of
social improvement. In every successive stage of their advancement,
such countries have equally felt the evils occasioned by a scanty and
precarious subsistence. In America, however, the people are in the full
enjoyment of all the arts of civilization, while they are unrestricted
in their means of subsistence, and consequently in their power of
multiplication. From this singular state of things, two consequences
result. One is, that the progress of the nation in wealth, power, and
greatness, is more rapid than the world has ever before witnessed.
Another is, that our people, being less cramped and fettered by their
necessities, and feeling, of course, less of those moral evils which
poverty and discomfort engender, their character, moral and intellectual,
will be developed and matured with greater celerity, and, I incline
to think, carried to a higher point of excellence than has ever yet
been attained. I anticipate for them the eloquence and art of Athens--the
courage and love of country of Sparta--the constancy and military prowess
of the Romans--the science and literature of England and France--the
industry of the Dutch--the temperance and obedience to the laws of the
Swiss. In fifty years, their numbers will amount to forty millions; in
a century, to one hundred and sixty millions; in two centuries, (allowing
for a decreasing rate of multiplication,) to three or four hundred
millions. Nor does it seem impossible that, from the structure of their
government, they may continue united for a few great national purposes,
while each State may make the laws that are suited to its peculiar habits,
character, and circumstances. In another half centu
ry, they will extend
the Christian religion and the English language to the Pacific Ocean.

"To the south of them, on the same continent, other great nations will
arise, who, if they were to be equally united, might contend in terrible
conflicts for the mastery of this great continent, and even of the world.
But when they shall be completely liberated from the yoke of Spanish
dominion, and have for some time enjoyed that full possession of their
faculties and energies which liberty only can give, they will probably
split into distinct States. United, at first, by the sympathy of men
struggling in the same cause, and by similarity of manners and religion,
they will, after a while, do as men always have done, quarrel and fight;
and these wars will check their social improvement, and mar their
political hopes. Whether they will successively fall under the dominion
of one able and fortunate leader, or, like the motley sovereignties of
Europe, preserve their integrity by their mutual jealousy, time only can
show."

"Your reasoning about the natives of Spanish America appears very
probable," said the Brahmin; "but is it not equally applicable to your
own country ?"

I reminded him of the peculiar advantages of our government. He shook
his head.

"No, Atterley," said he, "do not deceive yourself. The duration of every
species of polity is uncertain; the works of nature alone are permanent.
The motions of the heavenly bodies are the same as they were thousands
of years ago. But not so with the works of man. He is the identical animal
that he ever was. His political institutions, however cunningly devised,
have always been yet more perishable than his structures of stone and
marble. This is according to all past history: and do not, therefore,
count upon an exception in your favour, that would be little short of
the miraculous. But," he good-naturedly added, "such a miracle may take
place in your system; and, although I do not expect it, I sincerely
wish it."

We were now able to see one half of the broad expanse of the P
acific,
which glistened with the brightness of quicksilver or polished steel.

"Cast your eyes to the north," said he, "and see where your continent
and mine approach so near as almost to touch. Both these coasts are
at this time thinly inhabited by a rude and miserable people, whose
whole time is spent in struggling against the rigours of their dreary
climate, and the scantiness of its productions. Yet, perhaps the Indians
and the Kamtschadales will be gradually moulded into a hardy, civilized
people: and here may be the scene of many a fierce conflict between your
people and the Russians, whose numbers, now four times as great as yours,
increase almost as rapidly."

He then amused me with accounts of the manners and mode of life of the
Hyperborean race, with whom he had once passed a summer. Glancing my eye
then to the south,--"See," said I, "while the Kamtschadale is providing
his supply of furs and of fish, for the long winter which is already
knocking at the door of his hut, the gay and voluptuous native of the
Sandwich and other islands between the tropics. How striking the contrast!
The one passes his life in ease, abundance, and enjoyment; the other in
toil, privation, and care. No inclemency of the seasons inflicts present
suffering on these happy islanders, or brings apprehensions for the
future. Nature presents them with her most delicious fruits spontaneously
and abundantly; and she has implanted in their breast a lively relish for
the favours she so lavishly bestows upon them."

The Brahmin, after musing a while, replied: "The difference is far less
than you imagine. Perhaps, on balancing their respective pleasures and
pains, the superior gain of the islander will be reduced to nothing: for,
as to the simplest source of gratification, that of palatable food, if
nature produces it more liberally in the islands, she also produces there
more mouths to consume it. The richest Kamtschadale may, indeed, oftener
go without a dinner than the richest Otaheitan; but it may be quite the
reverse with the poorest
. Then, as to quality of the food: if nature
has provided more delicious fruits for the natives of tropical climates,
she has given a sharper appetite and stronger digestion to the Hyperborean,
which equalizes the sum of their enjoyments. A dry crust is relished, when
an individual is hungry, more than the most savoury and delicate dainties
when he is in a fever; and water to one man, is a more delicious beverage
than the juice of the grape or of the palm to another. As to the necessity
for labour, which is ever pressing on the inhabitants of cold countries,
it is this consequent and incessant activity which gives health to their
bodies, and cheerful vigour to their minds; since, without such exercise,
man would have been ever a prey to disease and discontent. And, if no
other occupation be provided for the mind of man, it carves out employment
for itself in vain regrets and gloomy forebodings--in jealousy, envy, and
the indulgence of every hateful and tormenting passion: hence the
proverb,--'If you want corn, cultivate your soil; if you want weeds, let
it alone.'

"But again: the native of those sunny isles is never sensible of the
bounty of Providence, till he is deprived of it. Here, as well as every
where else, desire outgoes gratification. Man sees or fancies much that
he cannot obtain; and in his regret for what he wants, forgets what he
already possesses. What is it to one with a tooth-ache, that a savoury
dish is placed before him? It is the same with the mind as the body: when
pain engrosses it in one way, it cannot relish pleasure in another. Every
climate and country too, have their own evils and inconveniences."

"You think, then," said I, "that the native of Kamtschatka has the
advantage?"

"No," he rejoined, "I do not mean to say that, for the evils of his
situation are likewise very great; but they are more manifest, and
therefore less necessary to be brought to your notice."

It was now, by our time-pieces, about two o'clock in the afternoon--that
is, two hours had elapsed since we left terra firm
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Cornell University, Joshua Hutchinson,
Steve Schulze and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding will be sent postpaid on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | Carbolic Salve |
 | |
 | Recommended by Physicians. |
 | |
 | The best Salve in use for all disorders of the Skin, |
 | for Cuts, Burns, Wounds, &c. |
 | |
 | USED IN HOSPITALS |
 | |
 | SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS. |
 | |
 | PRICE 25 CENTS. |
 | |
 | JOHN F. HENRY, Sole Proprietor, |
 | No. 8 College Place, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades, as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | |
 | Sole Agent for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol. I. No. 24.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

 * * * * *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,

By ORPHEUS C. KERR,

Continued in this Number.

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bound Volume No. 1. |
 | |
 | The first volume of PUNCHINELLO, |
 | ending with No. 26 September 24, |
 | 1870. |
 | |
 | Bound in Fine Cloth. |
 | |
 | will be ready for delivery on Oct. 1, |
 | 1870. |
 | |
 | PRICE $2.50. |
 | |
 | Sent postpaid to any part
 of the United |
 | States on receipt of price. |
 | |
 | A copy of the paper for one year, |
 | from October 1st, No. 27, and the |
 | Bound Volume (the latter prepaid,) |
 | will be sent to any subscriber for $5.50. |
 | |
 | Three copies for one year, and three |
 | Bound Volumes, with an extra copy of |
 | Bound Volume, to any person sending |
 | us three subscriptions for $16.50. |
 | |
 | One copy of paper for one year, |
 | with a fine chromo premium, |
 | for $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, mailed free .10 |
 | |
 | Back numbers can always be supplied, |
 | as the paper is elecrotyped. |
 | |
 | Book canvassers will find this |
 | volume a |
 | |
 | Very Saleable Book. |
 | |
 | Orders supplied at a very liberal |
 | discount. |
 | |
 | All remittances should be made in |
 | Post Office orders. |
 | |
 | Canvassers wanted for the paper |
 | everywhere. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | Punchinello Publishing Co., |
 | 83 Nassau St., N.Y. |
 | P.O. Box No. 2783 |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for July. |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 Broadway, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._ |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary._ |
 | |
 | |

 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents_. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAIL-ROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at |
 | |
 | WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, and July, an attractive and |
 | Saleable Work. |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2845.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY. |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew, |
 | commencing May 31, will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8.45, and |
 | Thirty-fourth st. at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers,(Nyack, and |
 | Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill, |
 | Hudson, and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge |
 | cars in connection with the day boats will leave on arrival |
 | at Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare |
 | $4.25 from New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat |
 | Seneca will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J.M. Sprague |
 | |
 | Is the Authorized Agent of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For the |
 | |
 | New England States, |
 | |
 | To Procure 
Subscriptions, and to Employ Canvassors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XVII.

INSURANCE AND ASSURANCE.

Six months had come and gone and done it; the weather was as
inordinately hot as it had before been intolerably cold; and the
Reverend OCTAVIUS SIMPSON stood waiting, in the gorgeous Office of the
Boreal Life Insurance Company, New York, for the appearance of Mr.
MELANCTHON SCHENCK.

Having been directed by a superb young clerk, who parted his hair in the
middle, to "just stand out of the passage-way and amuse yourself with
one of our Schedules for awhile," until the great life-Agent should come
in, the Gospeler read a few schedulistic pages, proving, that if a
person had his life Insured at the age of Thirty, and paid his premiums
regularly until he was Eighty-five, the cost to him and profit to the
Company would, probably, be much more than the amount he had insured
for. It must, then, be evident to him, that, upon his death, at Ninety,
the Company would have received, in all, sufficient funds from him to
pay the full amount of his Policy to the lady whom he had always
introduced as his wife, and still retain enough to declare a handsome
Dividend for itself. Such was the sound business-principle upon which
the Boreal was conducted; and the merest child must perceive, that only
the extremely unlikely coincidence of at least four insurers all dying
before Eighty-five could endanger the solvency of the beneficent
institution.--Having mastered this convincing argument, and become
greatly confused by its plausibility, Mr. SIMPSON next g
ave some
attention to what was going on around him in the Office, and allowed his
overwrought mind to relax cheerfully in contemplation thereof. One of
human nature's peculiarities was quite amusingly exemplified in the
different treatment accorded to callers who were "safe risks," and to
those who were not. Thus, the whisper of "Here comes old Tubercles,
again!" was prevalent amongst the clerks upon the entrance of a very
thin, narrow-chested old gentleman, whom they informed, with
considerable humor, that he was only wasting hours which should be spent
with a spiritual adviser, in his useless attempts to take out a Policy
in _that_ office. The Boreal couldn't insure men who ought to be upon
their dying beds instead of coughing around Insurance offices. Ha, ha,
ha! Another gentleman, florid of countenance and absolutely without
neck, was quickly checked in the act of giving his name at one of the
desks; one clerk desiring another clerk to look, under the head of "A.,"
in his book, for "_Apoplexy_," and let this man see that we can't take
such a risk as he is on any terms. A third caller, who really looked
quite healthy except around the eyes, was also assured that he need not
call again--"Because, you see," explained the clerkly wag, "it's no go
for you to try to play your BRIGHT'S Disease on _us!_" When, however,
the applicant was a robustious, long-necked, fresh individual, he was
almost lifted from his feet in the rush of obliging young Boreals to
show him into the room of the Medical Examiner; and when, now and then,
an agent, or an insurance-broker, came dragging in, by the collar, some
Safe Risk, just captured, there was an actual contest to see who should
be most polite to the panting but healthy stranger, and obtain his
private biography for the consideration of the Company.

The Reverend OCTAVIUS studied these sprightly little scenes with
unspeakable interest until the arrival of Mr. SCHENCK, and then followed
that popular benefactor into his private office with the air of a man
who had gained a heighte
ned admiration for his species.

"So you have come to your senses at last!" said Mr. SCHENCK, hastily
drawing his visitor toward a window in the side-room to which they had
retired. "Let me look at your tongue, sir."

"What do you mean?" asked the Gospeler, endeavoring to draw back.

"I mean what I say. Let--me--see--your--tongue.--Or, stop!" said Mr.
SCHENCK, seized with a new thought, "I may as well examine your general
organization first." And, flying at the astounded Ritualistic clergyman,
he had sounded his lungs, caused a sharp pain in his liver, and felt his
pulse, before the latter could phrase an intelligent protest.

"You may die at any moment, and probably will," concluded Mr. SCHENCK,
thoughtfully; "but still, on the score of friendship, we'll give you a
Policy for a reasonable amount, and take the chance of being able to
compromise with your mother on a certain per centage after the funeral."

"I don't want any of your plagued policies!" exclaimed the irritated
Gospeler, pushing away the hand striving to feel his pulse again.

"As you have expressed a desire to resign the guardianship of your
wards, Mr. and Miss PENDRAGON, and I have agreed to accept it, my
purpose in calling here is to obtain such statement of your account with
those young people as you may be disposed to render."

"Ah!" returned the other, in sullen disappointment. "That is all, eh?
Allow me to inform you, then, that I have cancelled the Boreal policies
which have been granted to the Murderer and his sister; and allow me
also to remark, that a dying clergyman like yourself might employ his
last moments better than encouraging a Southern destroyer of human
life."

"I do not, cannot believe that MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON is guilty," said Mr.
SIMPSON, firmly. "Having his full confidence, and thoroughly knowing his
nature, I am sure of his innocence, let appearances be what they may.
Consequently, it is my determination to befriend him."

"And you will not have your life insured?"

"I will not, sir. Please stop bothering me."

"And you call
 yourself a clergyman!" cried Mr. SCHENCK, with intense
scorn. "You pretend to be a Ritualistic spiritual guide; you champion
people who slay the innocent and steal devout men's umbrellas; and yet
you do not scruple to leave your own high-church Mother entirely without
provision at your death.--In such a case," continued the speaker,
rising, while his manner grew ferocious with determination--"in such a
case, all other arguments having failed, my duty is plain. Yon shall not
leave this room, sir, until you have promised to take out a Boreal
Policy."

He started, as he spoke, for the door of the private-office, intending
to lock it and remove the key; but the unhappy Ritualist, fathoming his
design, was there before him, and tore open the door for his own speedy
egress.

"Mr. SCHENCK," observed the Gospeler, turning and pausing in the
doorway, "you allow your business-energy to violate all the most
delicate amenities of private life, and will yet drive some maddened
mortal to such resentful use of pistol, knife, or poker, as your
mourning family shall sincerely deplore. The articles on Free Trade and
Protection in the daily papers have hitherto been regarded as the climax
of all that utterly wearies the long-suffering human soul; but I tell
you, as a candid friend, that they are but little more depressing and
jading to the vital powers than your unceasing mention of
life-insurance."

"These are strong words, sir," answered Mr. SCHENCK, incredulously. "The
editorial articles to which you refer are considered the very drought of
journalism; those by Mr. GREELEY, especially, being so dry that they are
positively dangerous reading without a tumbler of water."

"Yon brought the comparison upon yourself, Mr. SCHENCK. Good day."

Thus speaking, the Reverend OCTAVIUS SIMPSON hurried nervously from the
Boreal temple; not fairly satisfied that he had escaped a Policy until
he found himself safely emerged on Broadway and turning a corner toward
Nassau Street. Beaching the latter bye-way, after a brief interval of
sharp walki
ng, he entered a building nearly opposite that in which was
the office of Mr. DIBBLE; and, having ascended numerous flights of
twilight stairs to the lofty floor immediately over the saddened rooms
occupied by a great American Comic Paper, came into a spidery garret
where lurked MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON,

"Hard at it?" he asked, approaching a ricketty table at which sat the
persecuted Southerner, reading a volume of HOYLE'S Games.

"My only friend!" ejaculated the lonely reader, hurriedly covering the
book with an arm. "I am, as you see, studying law here, all alone with
these silent friends."

He waved his thin hand toward a rude shelf on which were several
well-worn City Directories of remote dates, volumes of Patent Office
Reports for the years '57 and '59, a copy of Mr. GREELEY'S Essays on
Political Economy, an edition of the Corporation Manual, the Coast
Survey for 1850, and other inflaming statistical works, which had been
sent to him in his exile by thoughtful friends who had no place to keep
them.

"Cheer up, brother!" exhorted the good Gospeler, "I'll send you some
nice theological volumes to add to your library, which will then be
complete. Be not despondent. All will come right yet."

"I reckon it will, in time," returned the youth, moodily. "I suppose you
know that my sister is determined to come here and stay with me?"

"Yes, MONTGOMERY, I have heard of her noble resolution. May her
conversation prove sustaining to you."

"There will be enough of it, I reckon, to sustain half a dozen people,"
was the despondent answer. "This is a gloomy place for her, Mr. SIMPSON,
situated, as it is, immediately over the offices of a Comic Paper."

"And do you think she would care for cheerful accessories while you are
in sorrow?" asked the Gospeler, reproachfully.

"But it is so mournful--that floor below," persisted the brother,
doubtfully. "If there were only something the least bit more lively down
there--say an Undertaker's."

"A Sister's Love can lessen the most crushing gloom, MONTGOMERY."

A silent pressure of th
e hand rewarded this encouraging reminder of
sanguine friendship; and, after the depressed law-student had promised
the Reverend OCTAVIUS to walk with him as far as the ferry in a few
moments, the said Reverend departed for a hasty call upon the old lawyer
across the street.

Benignant Mr. DIBBLE sat near a front window of his office, and received
the visitor with legal serenity.

"And how does our young friend enjoy himself, Mr. SIMPSON, in the
retreat which I had the honor of commending to you for him?"

The visitor replied, that his young friend's retreat, by its very
loftiness, was calculated to inspire any occupant with a room-attic
affection.

"And how, and when, and where did you leave Mr. BUMSTEAD?" inquired Mr.
DIBBLE.

"As well as could be expected; this morning, at Bumsteadville," said the
Gospeler, with answer as terse and comprehensive as the question.

"--Because," added the lawyer, quickly, "there he is, now, coming out of
a refreshment saloon immediately under the building in which our young
friend takes refuge."

"So he is!" exclaimed the surprised Mr. SIMPSON, staring through the
window.

There, indeed, as indicated, was the Ritualistic organist; apparently
eating cloves from the palm of his right hand as he emerged from the
place of refreshment, and wearing a linen coat so long and a straw hat
of such vast brim that his sex was not obvious at first glance. While
the two beholders gazed, in unspeakable fascination, Mr. BUMSTEAD
suddenly made a wild dart at a passing elderly man with a dark
sun-umbrella, ecstatically tore the latter from his grasp, and
passionately tapped him on the head with it. Then, before the astounded
elderly man could recover from his amazement, or regain the gold
spectacles which had been knocked from his nose, the umbrella, after an
instant of keen examination, was restored to him with a humble, almost
abjectly apologetic, air, and Mr. BUMSTEAD hurried back, evidently
crushed, into the refreshment saloon.

"His brain must be turned by the loss of his relative," murmured t
he
Gospeler, pitifully.

"His umbrellative, you mean," said Mr. DIBBLE.

When these two gentlemen had parted, and the Reverend OCTAVIUS SIMPSON
had been escorted to the ferry, as promised, by MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON,
the latter, after a long, insane walk about the city, with the
thermometer at 98 degrees, returned to his attic in time to surprise a
stranger climbing in through one of the back windows.

"Who are you?" exclaimed the Southern youth, much struck by the funereal
aspect, sexton-like dress, and inordinately long countenance of the
pallid, light-haired intruder.

"Pardon! pardon!" answered he at the window, with much solemnity. "I am
a proprietor of the Comic Paper down below, and am eluding the man who
comes every day to tell me how such a paper _should_ be conducted. He is
now talking to the young man writing the mail-wrappers, who, being of
iron constitution and unmarried, can bear more than I. There was just
time for me to glide out of the window at sound of that fearful voice,
and I climbed the iron shutter and found myself at your casement.--Hark!
Do you hear the buzz down there? He's now telling the young man writing
the mail-wrappers what kind of Cartoons should be got-up for _this_
country.--Hark, again! and the young man writing the mail-wrappers have
clinched and are rolling about the floor.--Hark, once more! The young
man writing the mail-wrappers has put him out."

"Won't you come in?" asked MONTGOMERY, sincerely sorry for the agitated
being.

"Alas, no!" responded the fugitive, in the tone of a cathedral bell.

"I must go back to my lower deep once more. My name is JEREMY BENTHAM; I
am very unhappy in my mind; and, with your permission, will often escape
this way from him who is the bane of my existence."

Being assured of welcome on all occasions, he of the long countenance
went clanging down the iron shutter again; and the lonely law-student,
burying his face in his hands, prayed Providence to forgive him for
having esteemed his own lot so hopelessly gloomy when there were Comic
Paper men on
 the very next floor.

That night, before going home to Gowanus, the old lawyer across the way
glanced up toward MONTGOMERY'S retreat, and shook his head as though he
couldn't make something out. Whether he had a difficult idea in his
brain, or only a fly on his nose, was for the observer to discover for
himself.

(_To be Continued_.)

 * * * * *

UNIVERSOCKDOLOGY.

Mr. PUNCHINELLO: It afflicts me, one of your most assiduous readers, to
notice that you cast not even so much as a lack-lustre glance at the
brilliant gems that STEPHEN PEARL ANDREWS scatters periodically through
the columns of the _Evening Mail_ and WOODHULL & CLAFLIN'S _Weekly_. Are
the times out of joint; or is it your Italian nose? Do you fear to quote
the sublimated utterances of the perspicacious, although pleonastic
philosopher? Does he lead you in thought, or the expression thereof?
Then, wherefore? And if not, wherever may the just reason be found for
your indifference?

The science of Universology, as so delightfully unfolded by Mr. ANDREWS,
is one that must ere long overtop and engulf all others, seeing that it
is, of itself, the science which embodies and contains all. It teaches
that the universe exists in time and space--a fact never discovered till
now--or that, rather, it exists in space and time, as the two negative
containers of its _statism_ or existence, and of its _motism_ or
eventuation, (its chain of events.) It shows that statism, or
world-existence-at-rest, in space, is analogous with the cardinal series
of numeration; and motism or world-existence-in-motion, in time,
analogous with the ordinal series of numbers; and that, finally, statism
and cardinism, (as of the four cardinal points in the orientation of
space,) are analogous with spiritualities and the spirit world; and that
motism and ordinism (succession by steps) are analogous with
temporalities, (transitory things) and so with the mundane or transitory
sphere.

Now this is the whole subject in a nutshell--a subject it behooves you
and all other deep thinkers to grapple
 withal. Through your efforts to
spread the glorious truths thus ingeniously set forth, how much good
might be done! Think of the unravelling of the complications surrounding
the Germano-Gallic war; the light that might be thrown upon the sources
of HORACE GREELEY'S agricultural information; the settlement of the
Coolie question. Then, see what effect a clear and candid discussion of
the topic would have on the public morality, security, and peace! How
often it appears that, in spite of the normal equanimity observable in
circumstantial evidence, hereditary disciplinarisms are totally devoid
of potential abstemiousness. This may be owing to the fact that at ebb
and neap tides the obliquity of vision (duism) remarked by most invalid
veterans in their occasional _adversaria_, is unconscious of their
parental dignity, and by no means to be confounded with the referees in
astronomical or pharmaceutical cases, or with ordinary omphalopsychites.
Whatever be or not be the result of these investigations and
calculations, it is consolatory to the student of proportional
hemispheres to remark that, whichever way the sophist may turn, he
_must_ invariably rely on the softer impeachments of a hireling crowd,
with

 "Water, water, everywhere,
 And not a drop to drink,"

and give up all personal interest in the homogeneous relations arising
from too precipitate a ratiocination of events, urging, at the same
time, the positive proportions exercised in the administration of a not
over particular dormitory, and the replication of
chameleonizing--constantly chameleonizing, odoriferosities.

Yours, PATHIST.

 * * * * *

About Face!

Recent London advices briefly state that EDMUND ABOUT, the missing
correspondent of the _Soir_, has turned up somewhere. Our Cockney
informant imagines that M. ABOUT, like his distinguished ancestor,
(ABOU, B.A.,) found his "sweet dream of peace" too rudely disturbed by
the howlings of the Prussian dogs of war, and decided to 'ead About for
Paris, simply in order to avoid being 'eaded off by the enemy.


 * * * * *

[Illustration: "WHEN YOU GO TO LONG BRANCH, DO NOT TAKE A NEWFOUNDLAND
DOG WITH YOU. I BROUGHT ONE DOWN WITH ME HERE, AND WHENEVER I GO OUT TO
TAKE A LITTLE DIP, THE FAITHFUL CREATURE WILL INSIST ON DRAGGING ME
ASHORE."--_Letter from a Friend_.]

 * * * * *

SUMMER AT SANDY POINT.

_Sandy Point, August 18, 1870_.

PRELIMINARY FLOURISHES.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO:[1] Nature demands a change of air. Man needs rest.
Invigoration is necessary to health. The throbbing brain must shut down
on its throbbing.

Hence second-class hotels, with first-class prices; hence hard beds, no
gas, and many flies. I say--"Hence--flies," but as a general thing I
notice they will not hence.

WHERE TO GO.

Those who are fond of flees may flee to the mountains. I know when I've
got enough, and I prefer to surf it on the sea shore. Take the 3-1/2
A.M. train, and come to

SANDY POINT.

Everything here is sand as far as the eye can reach, or a horse and
wagon, with a profane driver, can travel. The ocean laves the beach. The
sea also is here. The tide comes in twice a day. This alone gives Sandy
Point a great advantage over all other points on the coast.

I rode up in the regular conveyance, and soon after my arrival found
myself standing on the spacious and elegant piazza of

THE CHARNEL HOUSE,

a palatial structure erected by the late Mr. CHARNEL, who is said to
have lavished an immense fortune upon it. Strictly speaking, he didn't
lavish quite so much paint on the front as an advanced civilization had
a right to expect; but within, everything, (including the clerk,)
appears to have been furnished with an eye to

LUXURIOUS COMFORT,

Mr. SOAPINGTON, the genial landlord, Mr. RICHARD SOAPINGTON, Jr., the
gentlemanly clerk, Mrs. SOAPINGTON, the accomplished hostess, and the
lovely Miss CLARA SOAPINGTON, all greeted me with that hearty welcome,
so dear to the traveller. SOAPINGTON said he was glad to see me, and,
seeing that it was me, he would be willing to infringe on his inflexible
rule, and would allow me to pay

CASH IN ADVANCE.

Ma
dame S. was sorry she couldn't set me up a cot in the wash-room, but
would be compelled to let me have a double front-room over the bar. I
told her if the apartment had a practicable trap door I thought I could
get along.

RICHARD S., Jr., was sure he had met me before; and, as a friend, he
would say the establishment was not responsible for valuables unless
deposited in the safe. He would take my watch and jewelry to wear while
I was there, inasmuch as

HE WAS THE SAFE HIMSELF.

The charming Miss S. didn't say anything, but she smiled, and looked
such unutterable things from behind the blinds, that I expect to find it
all in the bill.

Everybody that can get a railroad pass should come to Sandy Point

WHAT TO DO.

Sit in the reading-room and look over the torn files of two daily papers
a week and a half old; or study a hotel advertiser.

THE SURF BATHING

is magnificent. The prevalence of an unmitigated undertow renders it
quite exhilarating for old ladies and invalids. Any one who is drowned
will have every attention paid to his remains,--by the sharks.

BOATING.

Everybody boats. The ROWE Brothers are here, and sing on the water by
moonlight. You can blister your bands at an oar, or bale out the boat,
just as your taste inclines. As the life-preserver is a little out of
repair, I stay on shore.

FISHING.

Everybody fishes. There are all varieties, from speckled trout and
mackerel, up to conger eels, horse mackerel, and porpoises. Parties
frequently come back with all the fishing they want. If absent a week on
a trip, they can make arrangements to have their board run on just the
same.

DRIVING.

Everybody drives. The roads are of unsurpassing loveliness. They drive
every day. If the waiters would drive a few flies out of the
dining-room, we wouldn't sit down quite so many at table.

WHO ARE HERE.

Sandy Point, with all its native attractions, would be nothing were it
not for the beauty and fashion that throng its halls. There are men here
who can draw their note for any amount. Here is an ex-member of
Congress
; there a double X brewer, both immensely wealthy. Diamonds
abound. There is a hop in the parlor every evening and preaching on
Sundays.

I should not forget a paralytic washwoman in my section of the house,
who has a prevailing idea, when she brings home my clothes, that eleven
pieces make a dozen.

Reader, if you seek

THE FLUSH OF HEALTH,

come down here! I wasn't very flush when I got here, but I don't intend
to go away till I've put myself into thorough repair.

Yours, SARSFIELD YOUNG.

[Footnote 1: SOAPINGTON, of the hotel here, and I, have been skirmishing
over a board bill for a couple of weeks, and he has finally outflanked
me to the amount of about $40. I think if you will insert this
correspondence it will be all right. S. will succumb.]

 * * * * *

A War Conundrum.

When are soldiers like writers for the press? When they charge by the
column.

 * * * * *

A well-tilled Soil.

The article on DICKENS, in the August number of the _Atlantic Monthly_,
is certainly suggestive of fresh Fields, if not of pastures new.

 * * * * *

THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacations.

Sometimes Mr. PUNCHINELLO is very busy. Not only has he upon his
shoulders the ordinary labors of conductor of a great journal, but he
has much to do for other people. His editors, his printers, his binders,
his artists, his engravers, his corps of clerks, his office and errand
boys, and all connected with his extensive establishment, come to him
from time to time for advice in regard to the investment of their
surplus earnings, and between assisting in the purchase of a farm for
this one, a house for the other, and all sorts of stocks and bonds for
the rest, he is often terribly pressed for time.

No one who is not looked up to by a crowd of grateful dependents, all
fattening in the shadow of his prosperity, as it were, can understand
Mr. P's. feelings of responsibility at such times.

Such an unusual demand upon his time occurred last week, and Mr. P.
found that he would not be able to spend a few days as usual at some
fashionable w
atering place. But be must have some recreation, so he
determined to have a day's fishing among the celebrated Thousand Islands
of the St. Lawrence. He put some luncheon in a basket, and set off quite
early in the morning. Finding that some twenty hours were consumed in
the transit, Mr. P. thought that, considering his hurry, he had better,
perhaps, have gone to Newark for a day's fishing off the piers. But he
was at the St. Lawrence now, and it would not do to complain. He hired a
boat, lines, bait and two navigators, and set out bravely.

He sailed among a crowd of islands where either the bowsprit or the boom
was continually getting caught in the shrubbery and rocks, until he came
to island No. 18. Here was a picnic party.

For reasons which the accompanying view may render obvious, Mr. P. and
his men declined the invitation of the picnickers to stop and join them.
The boat continued on until it reached the channel between islands No.
87 and No. 88, and there Mr. P. got out his lines and commenced to fish,
trolling his bait behind as the boat slowly sailed, under the hot sun,
among those lovely isles, where, to be sure, burning's half o' the
sport, but where "burning SAPPHO" would have lost herself utterly, and
probably have tumbled into some of the watery intricacies and have put
herself out.

Mr. P. did not have much luck at first. He caught one muskallonge, after
a period of patient waiting which he feels he also must call long, and
once, when he thought he was hauling in a fine bass, he turned very red
when the boatmen laughed at seeing him "cotch an eel." But after a while
he got a royal bite. He hauled in manfully, and although, owing to the
intricacies of the channel, he could not see what he had caught, he knew
it was a fine fellow from its weight. At last, after tremendous tugging,
he got it in over the stem.

It was one of the thousand islands!

What could be done now?

The steersman, who had slipped under a seat when he saw the great mass
above him, and the man who managed the sails, were both Canad
ians, and
after a great deal of excited talk, they agreed if Mr. P. would make it
worth their while, they would endeavor to put the island back in its
place and make no remarks in public which would tend to produce a
misunderstanding between the governments of Great Britain and the United
States, on the ground of undue acquisition of territory. By the payment
of a sum, which it will require a club of thirty subscribers to make
good to him, Mr. P. concluded the arrangement, and they sailed back to
replace the island. But what was the horror of the party, when they
perceived on the unfortunate bit of British territory, a plate, which
had stuck fast by reason of a covering of the juice of plum-pie, and a
fork which was rammed firmly into the earth!

It needed but few collateral evidences to convince Mr. P. and his men
that this was the island where they had seen the picnic.

And where were the picnickers?

If any of Mr. P's. subscribers in Prince EDWARD Island, Costa Rica, the
Gallipagoes, or other outstanding places, receive their paper rather
late this week, they are informed that, in consequence of his having
spent three entire days exploring the labyrinth of these islands in
order to find the bodies of the unfortunate party of pleasure, (which
bodies he did not find,) Mr. P. was very much delayed in his office
business. His near patrons received their papers in due time, but those
at a distance will excuse him, he feels sure, when they consider what
his feelings must have been, while grappling for an entire picnic.

The island was dumped down anywhere, without reference to its former
place. When the Alabama claims are settled, Mr. P. will go back and
adjust it properly.

Mr. P. gained nothing by this trip but the knowledge that there are but
980 of these islands, which an unscrupulous monarchy imposes upon a
credulous people as a full thousand, and the gloom which would naturally
pervade a man, after an occurrence of the kind just narrated.

On his way home, he stopped for supper at Albany, and there he met CYRU
S
W. FIELD and Commodore VANDERBILT. One of these gentlemen was looking
very happy and the other very doleful.

(Illustration: The tall gentleman in the picture is Mr. FIELD--not that
he is really so very tall--but he is elevated. The short one is the
Commodore--so drawn, not because he is short, but because he is
depressed.)

After the compliments of the season, (warm ones,) Mr. P. asked his
friends how the war in Europe affected them.

"Gloriously!" cried Mr. FIELD. "Nothing could be better. The messages
fly over our cables like--like--like lightning. Why, sir, I wish they
would keep up the war for ten years."

"And you, sir?" said Mr. P. to the Commodore.

"Oh, I hate it!" said VANDERBILT. "They send neither men nor munitions
by our road. It is an absolute dead loss of hundreds of thousands of
dollars to me that my railroad is on this side of the ocean. I shall
never cease to deplore it."

"But sir," said Mr. P. "the war may cause a great exportation of grain
from the West, and then your road will profit."

"Don't believe it," said the Commodore. "The war will stop exportation."

"It goes against the grain with him, any way you fix it," said Mr.
FIELD, with a festive air. "He can't carry any messages."

"On a cabalistic cable," remarked Mr. P.

CYRUS smiled.

"No, air," said the Commodore, reverting to his grievances. "Never has
such a loss happened to me, since I went into New York Centrals."

"Well, I tell you, VANDY," said Mr. FIELD, "if you and other grasping
creatures had kept away from New York's entrails it would have been much
better for the body corporate of the State."

"Look here!" cried the Commodore, in a rage.

Mr. FIELD looked there, but Mr. P. didn't. He thought it was time to go
for his train, and he went.

 * * * * *

SEVERAL UNSAVORY RENDERINGS.

Why there should be such a thing as a New York Rendering Company is a
puzzle to thoughtful minds. Persons resident in certain districts of the
city, that border on the North River, though, are cognizant of that
Company. The North River nose knows th
e Co., and would close itself to
it, only that it is too close upon it to close effectually.

And what are the New York Rendering Company, and to whom do they render,
and what? Lard bless you! sir, or madam, they comprise a thing that
lives, if not by the sweat of its brow, at least by the suet of its
boilers. The dead horses of the city car companies are the creature's
normal food. Nor does it despise smaller venison, for it can batten upon
dead kittens, too, and fatten upon asphyxiated pup. Carnivorous,
decidedly, is the creature concreted by the New York Rendering Company,
converting all that it touches into fat, and so, living literally upon
the fat of the land. That the Company render other things besides fat,
however, has been for some time past a subject of complaint against
their management, and here are a few details of their renderings.

Once the atmosphere of the bays and rivers of New York was a source of
health to the excursionists who, in summer time, seek relaxation by
inexpensive voyages upon the waters adjacent to the city. By casting the
refuse of their carrion into these waters, the New York Rendering
Company have rendered foul and noxious the once healthful atmosphere of
our aquarian outlets, rendering themselves a nuisance, at the same time.

Thus, anything like a "pleasure" excursion by water, in the neighborhood
of New York, has been rendered impossible during the present season, by
the New York Rendering Company.

Off all the shores of our bays Offal has accumulated, and that during
the hottest summer on record for these latitudes. The waters have thus
been rendered unfit for bathing in, as the air has been rendered
pernicious to breathe--another rendering by the New York Rendering
Company, whose manifest mission is to offalize the world.

It is pleasant to know, then, that the renderings of the New York
Rendering Company are likely to be reactionary as well as suicidal,
(perhaps suetcidal might be a better word here,) in their results. Their
"offence is rank," and has reached the nose of 
authority, for we find it
stated that "Mayor HALL has already made complaint against the New York
Rendering Company, and that they will he indicted at the next sitting of
the Grand Jury."

And when their boiling nuisances come to be seized, as we trust they
will be, how jolly to see them "rendering to Seizer" all that has
rendered them the nuisance they are! Then let them render up the ghost,
and go out spluttering, like a dip candle from one of their own rancid
renderings--and so an end of them.

 * * * * *

A CARD OF THANKS.

PUNCHINELLO is extremely indebted to _The Sun_ for the association of
the names of several worthy gentlemen with the ownership of the only
first-class Illustrated Humorous and Satirical paper published in
America: (Subscription price, for one year, $4.00. Single copies 10
cents. Office, 83 Nassau St., New York.)

Well, it is something to be credited with having decent men about you;
perhaps if _The Sun_ would try the experiment it would be found more
purifying than even the sermons of O. DYER.

 * * * * *

WHY IT IS SO DRY.

We _thought_ it had something to do with a lack of moisture in the air;
and now, along comes Monsieur PROU, another philosopher, and merely says
what we had thought. He declares that there was so much ice last winter
(come now, gentlemen of the Ice Companies, what have you to say to
that?) it couldn't melt in time to evaporate in time to supply moisture
in time for the necessary showers. (Somehow, there's an eternity of
"time" in that sentence; but _n'importe: allons!_) We think PROU has
proved his case. And, although we can't quite sympathise with his
suggestion that detachments of sappers and miners be employed in the
spring-time, in Arctic (and doubtless also Antarctic) regions, in
blowing up icebergs and otherwise facilitating the operations of old
Sol, we give the ingenious Frenchman credit for at least as much
philosophic acumen as we ourselves possess: and Heaven only knows how
superb a compliment we thus convey!

Couldn't our friend Capt. HALL be requested to w
atch the Pole a little
next winter, and look into this idea of ours and PROU'S?

 * * * * *

[Illustration: CIRCUMSTANCES WILL COMPEL THE STATELIEST OF MEN TO STOOP,
SOMETIMES. GETTING A LIGHT FROM THE STUMP OF A NEWSBOY'S CIGAR IS ONE OF
THEM.]

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A SCENE FROM OLD NICK-OLOS NICK-OLBY.

THE EMPEROR DE MANTALINI GOING TO THE "DEMNITION BOW-WOWS."]

 * * * * *

OUR POLICE REPORT.

On Tuesday last a suspicious looking man was arrested by the police, and
taken to the One Hundred and Fourth Precinct Station House, on several
charges of disorderly acts perpetrated by him in various parts of the
city. He gave his name as CHARLES A. DANA, and was locked up for the
night.

Yesterday morning, prisoner was brought before Justice DOWNY, at the
Jephson Market Police Court.

Officer LOCUST, being called to testify, stated that his attention was
directed to the prisoner, on Tuesday afternoon last, by some boys in
Fourteenth Street. Prisoner was standing on the side-walk, on the side
of the street opposite Tammany Hall. He was armed with a small pewter
squirt, with which he was trying to smear the front of that building by
drawing up dirty water from the gutter. The range of the squirt did not
appear to reach more than half-way across the street. The water used was
very foul, leaving stains upon a dirt-cart that was passing. While
witness was watching the prisoner, the Hon. WM. M. TWEED came down the
steps from Tammany Hall, and, upon seeing him, prisoner ran away, but
was seized by witness, before he could make his escape.

On being interrogated by the magistrate, prisoner said that he hardly
knew what he was doing when arrested. The _Sun_ was in his eyes at the
time. If it hadn't been so, he would not have missed his shot. He must
do something for a living, and he thought that throwing dirty water was
as good an occupation as any other. Had made money out of it by
threatening respectable people with his pewter squirt, and they would
give him money rather than have their clothes soiled. He would do
anyt
hing to make money; and he didn't in the least mind dirtying his
hands in the making of it.

To a question by the magistrate, as to whether he had had anything to do
with casting offal into the bay, prisoner laughed in a wild manner, and
said that he, for one, could never be accused of wasting good, honest
dirt in that way. All the offal in the world, said prisoner, wasn't too
much for him to use in bespattering the objects of his attention,
friends as well as foes. He had heaved tons of offal, already, at Mr. A.
OAKEY HALL, (whom he evidently imagined to be an Irishman, and called
O'HALL,) He didn't care whom he hit, in fact, so long as he could make
it pay.

A gentleman connected with the velocipede interest, whose name our
reporter did not catch, here stated that he became acquainted with
prisoner nearly two years ago, while the velocipede frenzy was at its
height. He had constructed to order for the prisoner a peculiar
velocipede called the _"Sun Squirt."_ It had a Dyer's tub attached to
it, which was filled with bilge-water. On this machine, the prisoner,
armed with a pewter squirt, used to practise for several hours a day,
careering rapidly around the rink, and taking flying shots, as he went,
at large posters attached to the wall, having portraits on them of
General GRANT, Hon. H. GREELEY, Hon. WM. M. TWEED, The Mayor, Governor
HOFFMAN, and several other citizens of admitted position and
respectability. The bilge-water usually came back upon him, however, and
he was generally a humiliating object on leaving the rink.

Prisoner, on being asked by the magistrate whether he had any references
respecting character to give, replied in the negative, whereupon orders
were issued to lock him up, pending the appearance of Mr. PUNCHINELLO,
who will have some statements to make about him at a future day.

A reward of $5,000 has been offered for any information about the pewter
squirt, and particularly as to when, and by whom it was made; and, as
detectives are now engaged in working up the case, there can be but
litt
le doubt that the vile instrument will ere long be identified.

 * * * * *

DISTRESSING.

Some awful smasher of cherished notions is trying to make out that
ROUGET DE LISLE was not the real author of the famous _Marseillaise_,
but that he stole it from the Germans. It pains us to contemplate the
possibility of the charge being true, but, should it prove to be so, we
suggest that the name of the accepted author be changed from ROUGET to
ROGUEY DE LISLE.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: "WHAT WILL HE DO WITH IT?"

_Servant._ "MASSA FENTON AND MASSA CONKLIN HAVE SENT DIS YERE FOUNDLIN'
TO YER, TO TOOK KEER OF FOR A FEW WEEKS."

_Matron Greeley._ "O: DEAR, DEAR! AND IF IT SHOULD DIE ON MY HANDS,
WHO'S TO PAY THE FUNERAL EXPENSES?"]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN AMONG THE FAT MEN.

The "Last Gustive" attends the Annual Clam-Bake.

Empires may totter and Dienastys pass in their checks.

Politicians may steal the Goddess of Liberty poorer than JOB'S old
Maskaline Gobbler.

J. FISK, Jr., may set the heel of his bute down onto the neck of Rail
Rodes--Steambotes--ballet gals, and all that sort o' thing, and this
mundane speer will jog along, as slick as a pin, and no questions asked.

But deprive a Fat man of his little clam-bake, and it would be full as
pleasant as settin' down onto a Hornet's nest, when the Hornet family
were all to home.

That's so.

Another cargo of clams has gone to that born whence no clam returns,
onless you ram your finger down your throte, or take an Emetick.

In the words of Commodore PERRY, who is, alas! no more.

"The misfortenit bivalves meet the Fat man, and they're his'n."

Altho' I'me not much on the fat order myself, I received an invitation
to attend the grate Clam-bake. Mrs. GREEN put me up a lunch to eat on
the cars, and robin' myself in a cleen biled shirt, I sholdered my
umbreller and left Skeensboro.

The seen at Union Park was sublime with plenty of Ham fat. If all flesh
is grass, thought I, when old _tempus fugit_ comes along with his mowin'
masheen to cut this crop of fat men, I reckon he w
ill have to hire some
of his nabor's barns, to help hold all of his hay.

Great mountins of hooman flesh were bobbin' about like kernals of corn
on a red hot stove, remindin' me of a corn field full of punkins set up
on clothes pins.

The little heads on top of the great sweating bodies, looked as if they
were sleev buttons drove in the top of the Punkins.

When a fat man laffs, his little head sinks down into his shirt collar,
and disappears in the fat, like a turtle's head when you tickle his nose
with a sharp stick.

And then to see them eat clams. I've seen men punish clams by the
bushel--by the barrel--but never did I see men shovel clams in by the
cart load before.

"Gee-whitaker," said I, to a Reporter of a N.Y. Journal, "them critters
must have a dredful elastic stomack."

"Yes," said he, "when Fat-men get clam hungry, the sea banks has to give
up her clams, and the grocery keepers furnish the seasonin'."

"Wall," said I, "if the Sea has many such runs on her clam-banks as
this, she will have to put on her shutters soon, and go into
lickerdation."

"In which state," said he laffin', "it would be exceedin'ly
_clam_-etous."

The members of the Fat Men's Club all went prepared for hot weather,
dressed in a linnen soot and carryin' palm leaf fans.

I also notised large fassits onto the toes of their butes, so as to let
out the grease occasionly, and keep there butes from sloppin' over.

President RANSOM told me, that a fat man's wife invented the fassets, so
as to save sope grease.

"One fat man in hot weather," said Mister RANSOM, "will furnish grease
enuff, in the summer time, to keep his family in soft sope the year
around, besides supplyin' two or three daily papers with a lot."

Between you and me, Friend PUNCHINELLO, that greasy yarn seems rather
too slipperry to swaller, but I guess it'll wash after all.

PETER REED, of New York, and Docter WHITBECK, of West Troy, danced the
hiland fling for the championship and a barrel of clams.

"While PETE was cuttin' a pigin wing, and the Dr. was rakin' down a
dub
ble shuffle, they made things rattle, and naborin' towns thought it
was an airthquake, and began movin' out their feather beds.

"Go it, my fat friends," said I, to encourage 'em, "blood will tell, and
exercise help to digest your clams."

They shook their feet ontil exhausted natur, from necessity, ceased to
be virtous, when suddenly they both tumbled over onto their backs, and
blowed like porpoises.

The weather bein' hot, a shovel full of cloride of lime was sprinkled
onter them, to keep them from gettin' fly blode.

I was introjuced to a North River steembote pilot, whose corporosity
looked like the Commissary department of a Prushion Regiment.

"How are you, Paunchy Pilate," said I, gettin' off a joak at his
expense. "How many clams have you crucifide to-day?"

"Bully for you, ole man. Haw! haw! he! he! ho! ho!" roared half a dozen
fat men at my faceshusness, and they laffed and shook their sides, ontil
I thought they'd colaps a floo and spatter me.

One of them fat men approched me, and invited me to have a game of leep
frog.

"Excuse me, Captin," said I, "when I get so I can sholder an elefant,
I'le come around and accomodate you."

Some was playin' tag. Some was playin' blindman's-buff, while all was
amusin' themselves, at some innocent pastime or other.

The day's performance was closed by chasin' a greased pig.

The hog was well greased and let loose, and the whole lot of fat men
started pell-mell.

It was "Root hog, or die" with the odds in favor of the Hog.

All of a sudden, the hog turned back, and the fat men coulden't stop,
when down they all fell on top of poor piggy, smashin' him flatter'n a
pancake.

The bystanders were startin' for derricks and jack-screws to raise the
fat men off from each other.

"Hold on," says I, "I know a trick worth 2 of that."

I rusht into the house, and ceasin' the dinner-bell, rung it as hard as
I could.

It delited me, in my old age, to see them chaps scrabble when they heard
that bell.

In 10 seconds time, only one member of the pile diden't git up, and
rise, and th
at was the hog.

It was a cruel deception--but I believe the mean trick justifide the
end, and saved the Bord of Helth a big bill of expense. For sure's
you're borned, it would have been a meesely old job, cartin' of that big
pile of corrupshun.

I had seen enuff for one day.

My fisikle and intelectooal capacity was gorged.

Foldin' my Filacteries, and pickin' up my bloo cotton parashoot, I fled
the seen, hily tickled to think I wasen't a fat man.

Virtously of thee,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._

 * * * * *

[Illustration: WOMAN ASSERTS HER RIGHTS]

 * * * * *

OUR FINANCIAL ARTICLE.

WALL STREET, August 9th, 1870.

SIR:--It is with feelings of indignation and scorn that I proceed once
more to pollute my pen with the chronicles of a mercenary rabble. It
_had_ been thought that the remonstrances of the pure and high-minded
among your readers would have sufficed to overcome the resolution of an
infatuated, but not Criminal Editor. There was a time when the claims of
a _Certain Contributor_ were wont to be considered. But the passion for
worldly greed has, alas! perverted a too simple nature, and where the
Muses once found a congenial resting place, the demon Mammon now sits in
GHASTLY TRIUMPH.

I will not here refer to my threat of resignation, nor to the shouts of
diabolical laughter with which it was received by the conductor of a
Comic Journal, whose name it would not become me to mention. Suffice it
to say that those sentiments of loyalty and affection which have ever
been my glory, and a keen appreciation of the difficulty of obtaining
employment on the Press, have kept me attached to the staff of
PUNCHINELLO. The anguish which Finance has cost an artistic soul no one
may ever know. The silent tear may fall, but it shall be buried in my
bosom. The spectacle of my hidden suffering shall stand as a reproach to
one whom I once HONORED and now PITY.

Divesting myself of that part of my nature which is comprised in the
good, the beautiful and true, I betook myself yesterday to Wall Street
and 
the Gold Room. At the portals of the Financial Menagerie, a
gentleman placed his hand upon my shoulder.

Was I a subscriber?

No, but I was a comic writer.

He said I looked as though I had seen misfortune. If I was not a
subscriber, perhaps I had been in the Penitentiary, served out a
sentence at Sing Sing, or procured a divorce from my wife?

I had done none of these things.

I was not a member of the Legislature?

No.

A brilliant idea struck him. Perhaps I had been an editor?

I pleaded guilty.

He thought that would do--I might go in.

I went in, and herewith submit to you the result of my investigations.

NINE O'CLOCK.--On opening this morning, a scarcity of money was
perceptible in the market. It was especially perceptible in the case of
your contributor. (This is _not_ a hint that a week's salary in advance
would be acceptable.) Peanuts are much sought after. (They are excellent
things to pelt a fellow with.) Apples were inquired after, but upon a
rumor that they were unripe, they declined several per cent.

HALF PAST NINE.--The following telegram has just been received here.

"METZ, August 11th.

_"To His Serene Highness, the Prince of Erie, Duke of the Grand Opera
House, Admiral of Narragansett, Commander of the Ninth, etc., etc.,
etc., Erie Palace, New York City._

"ROYAL BROTHER:--Louis has received his baptism of fire. McMAHON wept.
He is training to dispute with Miss LOUISA MOORE, the proud title of the
'Champion Weepist.'

"Send me the Ninth, and the flower of _Opera Bouffe_--aye, even the
great SCHNEIDER--shall be thine. 'Tis France that calls--be kind.
Fraternally thine own,

NAP."

It was at first thought that H.S.H. would accede to the Emperor's
request, his recent treaty with the Court of the _Grande Duchesse_ and
his diplomatic relations with the Viennoise Ballet Troupe having
rendered the event far from improbable. It was also considered that the
hostility which he has openly displayed towards the British Erie
Protection Committee would predispose him in favor of England's natural
enemy. In 
view of the possible departure of the Ninth, and the
consequent prolongation of the European war, gold rose several degrees
above freezing point.

TEN O'CLOCK.--The Ninth, don't go to Europe after all. Several members
of Company "K" were observed to shed tears of vexation--or joy! Here is
Col. FISK'S reply.

"To NAPOLEON, _(not in Berlin.)_"

"EFFETE MONARCH:--Can't spare the b-hoys at any price. They're going
into camp down at the 'Branch.' Besides, some of them haven't paid for
their uniforms yet. With regards to Eugenie,"

"I am Right Royally Yours,"

JAS. FISK, JR.

"P.S.--If a large diamond, a team of six black and white horses, a
Sound steamer, or a copy of the _Tribune_, would be of any use to you,
command me. I might also spare you GOULD and some of my relations in
case you were very short of men, and had _some very perilous positions_
to fill up. JAMES."

HALF PAST TEN.--Speculators in New York Central and Hudson River
securities are much excited over a report that Commodore VANDERBILT had
been seen to purchase a watering hose in the store of a well known
manufacturer of gardening implements, on Broadway. He wrapped it in
brown paper, placed it in his $1000 buggy, and drove away behind Dexter
at the rate of 0:01-1/4 per minute. I have it on good authority that
there is no truth in the rumor, circulated a few days ago, that the
Commodore was engaged in negotiation with the Paid Fire Department for
the use of their engines, etc., on some occasion not far distant.

ELEVEN O'CLOCK.--It is now officially announced that the watering hose
referred to in my last is intended for gardening purposes only.

HALF PAST ELEVEN.--Great war between Erie and the _Tribune_. _Tribune_
interdicted on Erie Railway and Boston and Long Branch steamers.
Desolation of the Hub in consequence. Panic amongst _Tribune_
stockholders.

TWELVE.--FISK says that the _Tribune_ is so _heavy_ that it _must_ far
the future be paid for by _weight_, on his steamers. It is felt that
this course, if adopted by Mr. GREELEY, would be financially ru
inous to
the interests of his paper.

HALF PAST TWELVE.--It is stated here that Mr. GREELEY, in the effectual
disguise of a bran new hat and respectable boots, succeeded in smuggling
a carpet bag filled with _Tribunes_ on board the _Plymouth Rock_. Much
anxiety is felt here concerning his fate, in case the Admiral should
discover his presence on board.

ONE O'CLOCK.--In a letter just received, Mr. GREELEY designates the
above report as "a lie--a lie--false and malicious, and uttered with
intent to malign and defame." I publish Mr. G's correction with
pleasure.

HALT PAST ONE.--For some days past a steady decline has been noticeable
in Government securities; a want of confidence in the Executive is said
to be the cause. It is reported that several of our leading financiers
have openly indicated their dissatisfaction with the policy of those in
power at Washington.

Two O'CLOCK.--The leading financier referred to in my last I find to be
JAMES FISK, JR.

HALF PAST TWO.--He indicated his dissatisfaction with the policy of the
Government, to the President at Long Branch, thus: Having transferred
all the jewels from his left hand to the right, and carefully adjusted
them there, he raised the hand in question to his finely cut Roman nose,
then, extending his fingers, he twirled them for several minutes without
exhibiting any symptoms of fatigue. GRANT is said to have allowed a
prime Partaga to drop from between his lips in his surprise.

THREE O'CLOCK.--It is now rumored that Fisk did not apply his fingers in
the manner stated.

HALF PAST FOUR.--Market (at Delmonico's) gone frantic over a consignment
of _Opera Bouffe_ sent by the Erie Protection Committee as a mark of
confidence in the present Erie management. Eries said to be in good
voice. Preferred stock will open in about a month with an extensive and
carefully selected ballet. _Premieres Danseuses_ (hic) strong, with
extensive sales. Scenery (hic) quiet, (hic.) Appointments active (hic.)

GREENBAGS.

 * * * * *

Influence of Association.

Reading on one of the bull
etin boards, the other day, the words "War to
the Last!" we were irresistibly reminded of the difficulty that lately
existed between the native and Chinese Crispins in Massachusetts.

 * * * * *

THE WAY TO BECOME GREAT.

Half-witted people, only, will suppose I mean _grate_, for the most
obtuse nincompoop must know that anybody can become a grate man by going
into the stove business; but to develop yourself into a real _bona-fide_
great man, like GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN or DANIEL PRATT, requires much
study and a persistent effort. I have carefully thought out this
subject, and have reduced my reflections and observations to a series of
rules, which, for the benefit of humanity, I propose to make public.

It must he premised that there are many varieties of great men. Daddy
LAMBERT was a great man, so was the living skeleton, yet even a casual
observer could perceive the difference in their greatness. The greatness
of the fleshy world is one thing; the greatness of the no-fleshy world
is another. Also, strange as it may seem, a man may be great and yet not
be great. HOOD was a great General, so was NAP 3, but they tell me that
Nashville and Saarbrucken are terrible commentaries on greatness. Also a
man may be great and not know it. They say that, until he had made his
grand success at Fort Fisher, you never could persuade BUTLER that he
was a great General. TUPPER, I am informed, would never believe that he
was the most remarkable poet ever produced by England. Also a man may be
great and be perfectly aware of it. Acquaintances of GEORGE FRANCIS
TRAIN, Gen. O'NEILL, and Count JOANNES, assert that no one knows, better
than these gentlemen, that they are great men. Also a man may die calmly
in the consciousness that he is a distinguished individual, and yet,
years afterwards, some magazine writer may cast historic doubts upon his
greatness.

Of course there are several classes of great people. There is the little
great man, (for example, NAP. 3,) the big great man, (BISMARCK,) the
great little man, (NAP. 1,) and the g
reat big man, (the Onondaga giant.)
But the patient observer must perceive that general rules will cover all
these cases.

It is to be hoped that no one, who shall become great by means of my
rules, will turn upon me and revile me, when he finds himself
interviewed incessantly, persecuted by unearthings of his early sins, by
persistent beggars, by slanders of the envious, by libels of the press,
and by the other concomitants of greatness. You must take the sour with
the sweet. Even the sweetest orange may have an unpleasant rind.

RULES BY WHICH EVERY MAN CAN BECOME GREAT.

1. Always be sure to get what belongs to you, and make most vigorous
grabs for everything that belongs to everybody else.

2. Take everything which is offered to you, if it be on a par with what
you deem the standard of your worth.

This rule requires the exercise of much wisdom in its application. If,
for example, you look upon the Custom House as the office which is
adapted to you, don't, under any circumstances, take the appraiser's
position. But you must never let the rule work the other way.

3. Always have a policy. Talk about it much and often, and be sure to
call it "my policy."

The best of rules being liable to misconstruction, some Congressmen have
acted as if this rule read, "Always have a policy shop."

4. Always have a theory. If a murder has been committed, appear to know
all about the "dog," and to be familiar with its history from the time
when it was a pup. Be sure to fix suspicion upon some person, even if
you are compelled to eat your own words on the following day.

5. Talk much and often about protection, and give advice to farmers,
even if you don't know anything about agriculture.

6. Fill your head with classical quotations, and trot them out on all
occasions, whether discussing a bill for the diffusion of beans among
the Indians, or the Alabama claims.

7. Smoke many costly Havana cigars.

This rule has been lately discovered.

8. Get some one to write a history of CAESAR for you, or an account of a
tour in the Highla
nds, and then claim the work as your own.

There are one or two observations I would here make, which may be
useful. If you are ambitious, you had better commence at the lower
rounds of the ladder, in order that your ascent may be safe and rapid.
If you would be, for instance, a great statesman, be first an alderman;
if a great warrior, be first--well, say a tanner. Also, you should pay
particular attention to the clothes which you inhabit. An old white hat
and a slouchy old overcoat will insure you a nomination for the office
of Governor.

If, by following these rules and heeding these observations, you cannot
become a great man, you may rest assured that the fault is not in the
rules, but in you. What is already perfect cannot be made more perfect.
If you fail, after conscientiously following the above advice, (though
I'm not sure that the fact will not be the same, if you succeed,) it's
because you are already great--a great fool.

 * * * * *

"THE <DW52> TROOPS FOUGHT NOBLY."

So far as the Franco-Prussian war has gone, the blackest page of its
history appears to be the employment of the Turcos, who are nearly as
black as average Nubian "<DW65>s." The expedient of mixing black troops
with white was not very successful during our own little war. Raids upon
hen-roosts were about the most prominent results of the experiment,
though said raids were magnified by the Rads into grand victories over
Confeds. The Turcos have done better, so far as mere fighting is
concerned; but their brutal outrages exceed so greatly the hen-roost
exploits of WENDELL PHILLIPS'S devoted <DW54>s, that they are certainly
entitled to be organized into battalions bearing the title of the
NAPOLEON Black Guards.

 * * * * *

"THE VOICE OF THE TURTLE."

According to a newspaper paragraph, turtles are growing used to being
canned alive, now, on the Pacific Coast. On hearing of this atrocity,
the Nine Muses repaired at once to the office of PUNCHINELLO, and here
is the result of their visit:

 'Tis the voice of the Turtle
 That's heard in the 
land.
 Crying, "Bother your care!
 I don't want to be canned!

 "Pack me whole in a tub,
 Nor be stingy of ice,
 What I want is a BERGH,
 Nothing less will suffice."

 * * * * *

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

_Black-eyed Susan_ asks us whether a Pitched battle can take place on
land.
_Answer._--Certainly not. When we speak of a battle being Pitched we
mean that it has been fought by Tars.

_Fogbank._--"Is DANA, of _The Sun_, any relation to "Truthful JAMES," of
whom the _Overland Monthy_ has written?"
_Answer._--Distantly related, through intermarriage with the LONGBOWS.

_Moses._--We do not suppose that the person referred to by you as a
Dyer and Scourer is in any way related to OLIVER DYER, although the
latter person scoured Water Street some time since, and very
effectually, in pursuit of a "sensation." The word "Scourer,"
nevertheless, might be an allowable corruption of "Esquire," when
applied to any of the proprietors of that mephitic daily, _The Sun_.

_Pickerel._--Will Mr. GREELEY be obliged to dress in court costume if he
accepts the mission to the Court of St. JAMES?
_Answer._--No. It would be contrary to Mr. GREELEY'S well-known
principles to get on "tights."

_Flagroot._--Is it correct to say the "balance" of an army, meaning the
rest of it?
_Answer._--Not always. When an army has turned the Scale of battle,
however, the word Balance may be used.

_Mary Jane._--I have embroidered a flag for the Prussian army, and am at
a loss for a motto. How would "Bear and Forbear" do?
_Answer._--"Beer and for Beer" would be better.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: "THERE!--I SHOULD LIKE TO SEE THE UNDERTOW THAT WOULD RUN
AWAY WITH ME!"]

 * * * * *

A ROAR FROM NIAGARA.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO:--Having been reminded, by your recent notes on
Niagara, that there is a cataract of that name, possessed of height and
depth and breadth and volume and other well-known characteristics of a
genuine Waterfall, I thought I would go and see it for myself. Not that
I doubted your statements--which, indeed, are handsomely supported by
familia
r statistics,--but certainly there is a charm in treading the
ground once trod by Greatness, breathing--well not the same air, I hope,
but some of the same kind,--viewing the identical scenes, and being
swindled by the self-same parties, that had just occasioned your
animated comments.

I don't know a charm at all comparable with that of being swindled in
the midst of fine scenery, when the funds and enthusiasm still hold out,
and the sense of actually getting the worth of one's money is not yet so
blunted by transactions calculated to awaken Thought, as to have lost
the power of increasing one's felicity. That the intelligent lad who
drove me was in league with every one of the parties who were stationed
here and there with the sole apparent purpose of receiving fifty cents
from visitors, I was loth to believe, though nothing could have been
plainer, if one had happened to think of it from the start.

Is it not funny, the way they serve their Congress Water at the Cataract
House? They put a big lump of ice in a tumbler, take a bottle from a
shelf, pour the warm, stale fluid, (tasting like _perspiration_, as one
might fancy,) into this glass, and expect you to wait till it has grown
cool enough to be palatable. Well, if you wait, you lose what little
life there is left in the stuff; and if you don't, you'll be sorry you
hadn't done so.

One may say, "You needn't have ordered any Congress Water." Very well,
but why not, provided I liked it? The clerk said they kept Vichy, also,
but I learned they were "out." I wish they had been out of Congress too.
"All right!" said I, "I shall enjoy my breakfast all the more, for I
know _that_ will make amends!" And it did. The "salmon trout" was dry,
as usual, but that breakfast was a good thing. I enjoyed it, and my two
<DW65>s and my New York paper of day before, (for which I paid a cute
looking boy in the hall ten cents, on my way to breakfast,) and was
happy.

Not, my dear P., till I reached the "other side," and had been inveigled
into the Museum Hotel, and persuaded into 
those vile wrappings of
oil-cloth, with the ponderous rubbers over my thick boots, and had stood
around for some time, awaiting the pleasure of the very leisurely guide,
sweating at every pore, (or _nearly_ every one, for there are several
millions, I believe, and I so hate exaggeration,) and trying to evade
the glances of the amused bystanders, did I begin to realize the
enormity of the imposition that had been practised on me. Just fancy
_yourself_, Mr PUNCHINELLO, in such a costume, taking a seemingly
interminable walk in a hot sun, down ever so many steps, encased in
those nasty articles of gear, in the company of several other helpless
unfortunates, wishing with all your might yon were already there!"

"But the grandeur and glory of the adventure will console me!" I
murmured. Grandeur be hanged! A fig for the "glory!" What! do you call
this "going under the Falls,"--that renowned journey, so full of peril?
Pooh! merely standing in a bath-tub and letting somebody pull the
string! You don't get quite so wet; that's all. Where's the "danger,"
where's the "glory," of merely stepping under a little spirt from one
end of the Falls, with plenty of room to stand, and no darkness, no
mystery, no nothing. Nothing but an overwhelming sense of being a cussed
fool, and a simpleton, and a stupid, _and_ a dunce!

Oh, the going back, after that! in the same loathed costume, inwardly
justifying the laughter of the knowing loungers as you ascend among
them, and cursing yourself as the chief among ten thousand
(ninnies,)--the one altogether idiotic.

Except for this enormous swindle, dear P., I should have enjoyed
Niagara, and Niagara would doubtless have enjoyed me. But this
preposterous, disgusting, outrageous, ridiculous, contemptible,
disgraceful, _unsurpassable_ swindle prevented anything like a mutual
understanding. I saw green in the Falls, the Falls saw green in me. The
Falls kept coming down; I had already come down, (with my dollars,) and,
in fact, was perpetually descending, with sums varying from twenty-five
cents 
to four dollars and a half.

My sole object, friend PUNCHINELLO, in addressing you on this subject,
is to beg and beseech that you will warn the too-credulous and
too-generous public against this unmatchably atrocious swindle of Going
Under the Falls. It is too much for proud Humanity, Mr. P.! It is
crushing! It is withering! It is annihilating! What! "Annex" this fraud?
Never!--NEVER!

TUPMAN.

 * * * * *

THE POSSIBLE "WHY?" OF IT.

The personal feeling against the French Emperor, so often displayed in
the columns of the _Tribune_, has frequently been a subject of comment.
Nevertheless it is easily accounted for. As Louis NAPOLEON is said to
detest _ham_, ever since he was incarcerated in the fortress of that
name, so does the Hon. HORACE GREELEY detest _him_, ever since he (H.
G.) was arrested in France for some offence, real or imaginary, which we
cannot now recall to mind, and thrown into prison at Clichy. And to
this, also, may be traced the celebrated _bon mot of_ Mr. GREELEY, who
once remarked, on a festive occasion, that "Ham was afflicted with
_trichinosis_ when it had Louis NAPOLEON in it."

 * * * * *

A HINT FOR EXCURSIONISTS.

On account of the present nauseating condition of New York Bay, owing to
the offal nuisance, no prudent voyager should seek to stem its feculent
tide unless provided with "something to take." An intelligent
correspondent suggests that brandy would be about the thing, but that it
should be labelled "Bay Bum."

 * * * * *

A Military Opinion.

The "Prussian centre," of which we hear so much just now, ought to be
permanently established at Cologne, which place has been, in feet, the
Scenter of the world for generations past.

 * * * * *

BOOK NOTICE.

LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. By E. SHELTON MACKENZIE, LL.D,, Philadelphia:
T. B. PETERSON AND BROTHERS.

In this volume of 484 pages, Dr. MACKENZIE brings before his readers a
very full and interesting compilation of facts relating to the career of
the great novelist. Besides these, the volume contains a number of
characteristic article
s from the pen of DICKENS, published, originally,
in _All the Year Round_, some of which are of recent date. The book is
embellished with a portrait and autograph of DICKENS.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Extraordinary Bargains. |
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Respectfully call the attention of their Customers and |
 | Strangers to their attractive Stock |
 | |
 | OF |
 | |
 | SUMMER AND FALL |
 | |
 | DRESS SILKS, |
 | |
 | At popular prices. |
 | |
 | Striped, Checked and Chine |
 | |
 | SILKS, |
 | |
 | In great variety, $1 to $2 per yard; |
 | value $1.50 to $3 |
 | |
 | PLAIN FOULARD, |
 | |
 | $1.50, value $2 per yard. |
 | 24 inch Black and White |
 | Striped $1.75; value $2.50. |
 | |
 | STRIPED SATINS, |
 | |
 | $1.25; value $2. |
 | |
 | Plain and Striped Japanese, |
 | |
 | 75c. and $1 per yard. |
 | |
 | Rich White and Dress Satins, |
 | |
 | Extra Quality. |
 | |
 | A CHOICE LINE OF |
 | |
 | PLAIN GRAINS, |
 | |
 | for Evening and Street, $2.50 to $3; |
 | value $3 to $3.50 per yard. |
 | |
 | A FEW EXTRA RICH |
 | |
 | SATIN BROCADE SILKS, AMERICAN SILKS, |
 | |
 | Black and , $2. |
 | |
 | JOB LOT OF MEDIUM AND RICH |
 | |
 | SILKS. |
 | |
 | GREAT BARGAINS. |
 | |
 | A COMPLETE STOCK |
 | |
 | BLACK SILKS, |
 | |
 | At popular prices. |
 | |
 | PLAIN AND STRIPED |
 | |
 | GAZE DE CHAMBREY, |
 | |
 | Alexandre Best Kid Gloves, &c., &c. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Are offering several lots of |
 | |
 | HOUSEKEEPING GOODS |
 | |
 | MUCH BELOW |
 | |
 | COST OF IMPORTATION. |
 | |
 | 5-8 and 3-4 Single and Double DAMASK |
 | NAPKINS, from $1 to $3.50 per doz. |
 | |
 | DAMASK TABLE CLOTHS, all sizes, from |
 | $1.50 to $2.75 each. |
 | |
 | Brown and Bleached TABLE DAMASK, all |
 | linen, from 40 to 75c. per yard. |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETING, from 60 to 90c. per |
 | yard. |
 | |
 | PILLOW LINENS, from 30 t
o 70c. per yard |
 | |
 | LINEN SHEETS, for Single and Double Beds, |
 | at $2.5O and upward. |
 | |
 | Fringed HUCKABACK TOWELS, $1 |
 | per doz. and upward. |
 | |
 | Bleached HUCKABACK TOWELS, 12 1-2 |
 | per yard and upward. |
 | |
 | Excellent Kitchen Towelling. In 25 yard |
 | pieces, $3.25 per piece. |
 | |
 | Several Hundred pieces Linen Nursery |
 | Diapers, various widths, at $1 per piece |
 | below Current prices. |
 | |
 | MARSEILLES |
 | |
 | QUILTS AND BLANKETS, |
 | |
 | AT LOW PRICES. |
 | |
 | Attention of House and Hotel Keepers is invited |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical |
 | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The |
 | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the |
 | Union endorse it as the best paper of the kind ever |
 | published in America. |
 | |
 | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL. |
 | |
 | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) $4.00 |
 | " " six months, (without premium,) 2.00 |
 | " " three months, " " 1.00 |
 | Single copies mailed free, for .10 |
 | |
 | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S |
 | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows: |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year, and |
 | |
 | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo. |
 | Size 8-3/8 by 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for $4.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $3.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9. |
 | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-5/8. |
 | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for $5.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $5.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | Group of Chickens; |
 | Group of Ducklings; |
 | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8. |
 | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14. |
 | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13. |
 | Pointer and Quail; Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for $6.50 |
 | |
 | A copy of pape
r for one year and either of the |
 | following $6.00 chromos: |
 | |
 | The Baby in Trouble; The Unconscious Sleeper; The Two |
 | Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-3/4. |
 | Spring; Summer: Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8. |
 | The Kid's Play Ground. ll x 17-1/2--for $7.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $7.50 chromos |
 | |
 | Strawberries and Baskets. |
 | Cherries and Baskets. |
 | Currants. Each 13x18. |
 | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4. |
 | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9-1/8 x 4-1/2--for $8.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and Six American Landscapes. |
 | (A set.) 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for $9.00 |
 | |
 | A copy of paper for one year and either of the |
 | following $10 chromos: |
 | |
 | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12 |
 | Easter Morning. 14 x 21. |
 | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8. |
 | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,) |
 | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two), |
 | for $10.00 |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter, in |
 | advance; the CHROMOS will be mailed free on receipt of |
 | money. |
 | |
 | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be |
 | given. For special terms address the Company. |
 | |
 | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of |
 | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A |
 | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or |
 | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp. |
 | |
 | Address, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: DODD'S LANDLADY IS VERY LAVISH OF "FLY-PAPER,
" AND, AS
DODD NEVER KNOWS WHERE HE PUTS HIMSELF OR HIS HAT, THE RESULT IS RATHER
AMUSING.]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "The Printing House of the United States." |
 | |
 | GEO. F. NESBITT & CO., |
 | |
 | General JOB PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | BLANK BOOK Manufacturers, |
 | STATIONERS, Wholesale and Retail, |
 | LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers. |
 | COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers, |
 | CARD Manufacturers, |
 | ENVELOPE Manufacturers, |
 | FINE CUT and COLOR Printers. |
 | |
 | 163, 165, 167, and 169 PEARL ST., |
 | 73, 75, 77, and 79 PINE ST., New York. |
 | |
 | ADVANTAGES. All on the same premises, and under |
 | immediate supervision of the proprietors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Tourists and Pleasure Travelers |
 | |
 | will be glad to learn that that the Erie Railway Company has |
 | prepared. |
 | |
 | COMBINATION EXCURSION |
 | |
 | OR |
 | |
 | Round Trip Tickets, |
 | |
 | Valid during the the entire season, and embracing |
 | Ithaca--headwaters of Cayuga Lake--Niagara Falls, Lake |
 | Ontario, the River St. Lawrence, Montreal, Quebec, Lake |
 | Champlain, Lake George, Saratoga, the White Mountains, and |
 | all principal points of interest in Northern New York, the |
 | Canadas, and New England. Also similar Tickets at reduced |
 | rates, through Lake Superior, enabling travelers to visit |
 | the celebrated Iron Mountains and Copper Mines of that |
 | region. By applying at the Offices of the Erie Railway Co., |
 | Nos. 241, 529 and 957 Broadway; 205 Chambers St.; 38 |
 | Greenwich St.; cor. 125th St. and Third Avenue Harlem; 338 |
 | Fulton St. Brooklyn; Depots foot of Chambers Street, and |
 | foot of 23rd St, New York; No. 3 Exchange Place, and Long |
 | Dock Depot, Jersey City, and the Agents at the principal |
 | hotels, travelers can obtain just the Ticket they desire, as |
 | well as all the necessary information. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 |
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Ted Garvin, Dave Morgan and PG Distributed Proofreaders

LA FIAMMETTA

BY

GIOVANNI BOCCACCIO

TRANSLATED BY JAMES C. BROGAN

1907.

INTRODUCTION

Youth, beauty, and love, wit, gayety and laughter, are the component
parts of the delightful picture conjured up by the mere name of Giovanni
Boccaccio, the prince of story-tellers for all generations of men. This
creator of a real literary epoch was born in Paris, in 1313, (in the
eleventh year of Dante's exile), of an Italian father and a French-woman
of good family. His father was a merchant of Florence, whither he
returned with his son when the child was seven years old. The boy
received some education, but was placed in a counting-house when he was
only thirteen, and at seventeen he was sent by his father to Naples to
enter another commercial establishment. But he disliked commerce, and
finally persuaded his father to allow him to study law for two years at
the University of Naples, during which period the lively and attractive
youth made brisk use of his leisure time in that gay and romantic city,
where he made his way into the highest circles of society, and
unconsciously gleaned the material for the rich harvest of song and
story that came with his later years. At this time he was present at the
coronation of the poet Petrarch in the Capitol, and was fired with
admiration for the second greatest poet of that day. He chose Petrarch
for his model and guide, and in riper manhood became his most intimate
friend.

By the time he was twenty-five, Boccaccio had fallen in love with the
Lady Maria, a natural daughter of King Robert of Naples, who had caused
her to be adopted as a member of the family of the Count d'Aquino, and
to be married when very young to a Neapolitan nobleman. Boccaccio first
saw her in the Church of San Lorenzo on the morning of Easter eve, in
1338, and their ensuing friendship was no secret to their world. For the
entertainment of this youthful beauty he wrote his _Filicopo_, and the
fair Maria is undoubtedly the heroine of several of
 his stories and
poems. His father insisted upon his return to Florence in 1340, and
after he had settled in that city he occupied himself seriously with
literary work, producing, between the years 1343 and 1355, the _Teseide_
(familiar to English readers as "The Knight's Tale" in Chaucer,
modernized by Dryden as "Palamon and Arcite"), _Ameto, Amorosa Visione,
La Fiammetta, Ninfale Fiesolona_, and his most famous work, the
_Decameron_, a collection of stories written, it is said, to amuse Queen
Joanna of Naples and her court, during the period when one of the
world's greatest plagues swept over Europe in 1348. In these years he
rose from the vivid but confused and exaggerated manner of _Filocopo_ to
the perfection of polished literary style. The _Decameron_ fully
revealed his genius, his ability to weave the tales of all lands and all
ages into one harmonious whole; from the confused mass of legends of the
Middle Ages, he evolved a world of human interest and dazzling beauty,
fixed the kaleidoscopic picture of Italian society, and set it in the
richest frame of romance.

While he had the _Decameron_ still in hand, he paused in that great
work, with heart full of passionate longing for the lady of his love,
far away in Naples, to pour out his very soul in _La Fiammetta_, the
name by which he always called the Lady Maria. Of the real character of
this lady, so famous in literature, and her true relations with
Boccaccio, little that is certain is known. In several of his poems and
in the _Decameron_ he alludes to her as being cold as a marble statue,
which no fire can ever warm; and there is no proof, notwithstanding the
ardor of Fiammetta as portrayed by her lover--who no doubt wished her to
become the reality of his glowing picture--that he ever really received
from the charmer whose name was always on his lips anything more than
the friendship that was apparent to all the world. But she certainly
inspired him in the writing of his best works.

The best critics agree in pronouncing _La Fiammetta_ a marvelous
perfo
rmance. John Addington Symonds says: "It is the first attempt in
any literature to portray subjective emotion exterior to the writer;
since the days of Virgil and Ovid, nothing had been essayed in this
region of mental analysis. The author of this extraordinary work proved
himself a profound anatomist of feeling by the subtlety with which he
dissected a woman's heart." The story is full of exquisite passages, and
it exercised a widespread and lasting influence over all the narrative
literature that followed it. It is so rich in material that it furnished
the motives of many tales, and the novelists of the sixteenth century
availed themselves freely of its suggestions.

After Boccaccio had taken up a permanent residence in Florence, he
showed a lively interest in her political affairs, and fulfilled all
the duties of a good citizen. In 1350 he was chosen to visit the lords
of various towns of Romagna, in order to engage their cooperation in a
league against the Visconti family, who, already lords of the great and
powerful city of Milan, desired to extend their domains beyond the
Apennines. In 1351 Boccaccio had the pleasure of bearing to the poet
Petrarch the news of the restoration of his rights of citizenship and of
his patrimony, both of which he had lost in the troubles of 1323, and
during this visit the two geniuses became friends for life. They delved
together into the literature of the ancients, and Boccaccio determined,
through the medium of translation, to make the work of the great Greek
writers a part of the liberal education of his countrymen. A knowledge
of Greek at that time was an exceedingly rare accomplishment, since the
serious study of living literatures was only just beginning, and the
Greek of Homer had been almost forgotten. Even Petrarch, whose erudition
was marvelous, could not read a copy of the _Iliad_ that he possessed.
Boccaccio asked permission of the Florentine Government to establish a
Greek professorship in the University of Florence, and persuaded a
learned Calabrian, Leonzio Pilat
o, who had a perfect knowledge of
ancient Greek, to leave Venice and accept the professorship at Florence,
and lodged him in his own house. Together the Calabrian and the author
of _La Fiammetta_ and the _Decameron_ made a Latin translation of the
_Iliad_, which Boccaccio transcribed with his own hand. But his literary
enthusiasm was not confined to his own work and that of the ancients.
His soul was filled with a generous ardor of admiration for Dante;
through his efforts the Florentines were awakened to a true sense of the
merits of the sublime poet, so long exiled from his native city, and the
younger genius succeeded in persuading them to establish a professorship
in the University for the sole study of the _Divine Comedy_, he himself
being the first to occupy the chair, and writing a _Life of Dante_,
besides commentaries on the _Comedy_ itself.

Mainly through his intimacy with the spiritual mind of Petrarch,
Boccaccio's moral character gradually underwent a change from the
reckless freedom and unbridled love of pleasure into which he had easily
fallen among his associates in the court life at Naples. He admired the
delicacy and high standard of honor of his friend, and became awakened
to a sense of man's duty to the world and to himself. During the decade
following the year 1365 he occupied himself at his home in Certaldo,
near Florence, with various literary labors, often entertaining there
the great men of the world.

Petrarch's death occurred in 1374, and Boccaccio survived him but one
year, dying on the twenty-first of December, 1375. He was buried in
Certaldo, in the Church of San Michele e Giacomo.

That one city should have produced three such men as the great
triumvirate of the fourteenth century--Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio--and
that one half-century should have witnessed their successive triumphs,
is the greatest glory of Florence, and is one of the most notable facts
in the history of genius.

We quote once more from Symonds: "Dante brought the universe into his
_Divine Comedy_. 'But the soul of m
an, too, is a universe', and of this
inner microcosm Petrarch was the poet and genius. It remained for
Boccaccio to treat of daily life with an art as distinct and dazzling as
theirs. From Dante's Beatrice, through Petrarch's Laura, to Boccaccio's
La Fiammetta--from woman as an allegory of the noblest thoughts and
purest stirrings of the soul, through woman as the symbol of all beauty
worshiped at a distance, to woman as man's lover, kindling and
reciprocating the most ardent passion; from mystic, stately periods to
Protean prose; from verse built up into cathedral-like dignity, through
lyrics light as arabesques and pointed with the steely touch of polished
style, to that free form of speech which takes all moods and lends
itself alike to low or lofty things--such was the rapid movement of
Italian genius within the brief space of fifty years. So quickly did the
Renaissance emerge from the Middle Ages; and when the voices of that
august trio were silenced in the grave, their echoes ever widened and
grew louder through the spacious time to come."

No translation into English of _La Fiammetta_ has been made since
Shakespeare's time--when a small edition was published, which is now so
rare as to be practically unattainable--until the appearance of the
present Scholarly and poetic rendering, which places within the reach of
all one of the world's greatest masterpieces of literature.

D.K.R.

PROLOGUE

_Beginneth the Book called Elegy of Madonna Fiammetta, sent by her to
Ladies in Love._

When the wretched perceive or feel that their woes arouse compassion,
their longing to give vent to their anguish is thereby increased. And
so, since, from long usance, the cause of my anguish, instead of growing
less, has become greater, the wish has come to me, noble ladies--in
whose hearts, mayhap, abides a love more fortunate than mine--to win
your pity, if I may, by telling the tale of my sorrows. Nor is it at all
my intent that these my words should come to the ears of men. Nay,
rather would I, so far as lies in my power, withh
old my complaints from
them; for, such bitterness has the discovery of the unkindness of one
man stirred in me, that, imagining all other men to be like him,
methinks I should be a witness of their mocking laughter rather than of
their pitying tears. You alone do I entreat to peruse my story, knowing
full well that you will feel with me, and that you have a pious concern
for others' pangs. Here you will not find Grecian fables adorned with
many lies, nor Trojan battles, foul with blood and gore, but amorous
sentiments fed with torturing desires. Here will appear before your very
eyes the dolorous tears, the impetuous sighs, the heart-breaking words,
the stormy thoughts, which have harrowed me with an ever-recurring goad,
and have torn away from me sleep and appetite and the pleasant times of
old, and my much-loved beauty. When you behold these things, and behold
them with the ardent feelings which ladies are wont to have, sure I am
that the cheeks of each separately, and of all when brought together,
will be bathed in tears, because of those ills which are alone the
occasion of my never-ending misery. Do not, I beseech you, refuse me
these tears, reflecting that your estate is unstable as well as mine,
and that, should it ever come to resemble mine (the which may God
forfend!), the tears that others shed for you will be pleasing to you in
return. And that the time may pass more rapidly in speaking than in,
weeping, I will do my best to fulfil my promise briefly, beginning with
that love which was more happy than lasting, so that, by comparing that
happiness with my present case, you may learn that I am now more unhappy
than any woman ever has been. And afterward I will trace with mournful
pen, as best I can, all the agonies which are justly the source of my
lamentations. But first, if the prayers of the wretched are heard, if
there is in Heaven any Deity whose holy mind can be touched with
compassion for me, afflicted as I am, bathed in my own tears, Him I
beseech to aid my despondent memory and support my trembl
ing hand in its
present task. So may the tortures which I have felt and still feel in my
soul become fruitful, and the memory will suggest the words for them,
and the hand, more eager than apt for such duty, will write them down.

Chapter I

_Wherein the lady describes who she was, and by what signs her
misfortunes were foreshadowed, and at what time, and where, and in what
manner, and of whom she became enamored, with the description of the
ensuing delight._

In the time when the newly-vestured earth appears more lovely than
during all the rest of the year came I into the world, begotten of noble
parents and born amid the unstinted gifts of benignant fortune. Accursed
be the day, to me more hateful than any other, on which I was born! Oh,
how far more befitting would it have been had I never been born, or had
I been carried from that luckless womb to my grave, or had I possessed a
life not longer than that of the teeth sown by Cadmus, or had Atropos
cut the thread of my existence at the very hour when it had begun! Then,
in earliest childhood would have been entombed the limitless woes that
are the melancholy occasion of that which I am writing. But what boots
it to complain of this now? I am here, beyond doubt; and it has pleased
and even now pleases God that I should be here. Born and reared, then,
amid boundless affluence, I learned under a venerable mistress whatever
manners and refinements it beseems a demoiselle of high rank to know.
And as my person grew and developed with my increasing years, so also
grew and developed my beauty. Alas! even while a child, on hearing that
beauty acclaimed of many, I gloried therein, and cultivated it by
ingenious care and art. And when I had bidden farewell to childhood, and
had attained a riper age, I soon discovered that this, my beauty
--ill-fated gift for one who desires to live virtuously!--had power to
kindle amorous sparks in youths of my own age, and other noble persons
as well, being instructed thereupon by nature, and feeling that love can
be quickened in young 
men by beauteous ladies. And by divers looks and
actions, the sense of which I did but dimly discern at the time, did
these youths endeavor in numberless ways to kindle in my heart the fire
wherewith their own hearts glowed--fire that was destined, not to warm,
but rather to consume me also in the future more than it ever has burned
another woman; and by many of these young men was I sought in marriage
with most fervid and passionate entreaty. But after I had chosen among
them one who was in every respect congenial to me, this importunate
crowd of suitors, being now almost hopeless, ceased to trouble me with
their looks and attentions. I, therefore, being satisfied, as was meet,
with such a husband, lived most happily, so long as fervid love, lighted
by flames hitherto unfelt, found no entrance into my young soul. Alas! I
had no wish unsatisfied; nothing that could please me or any other lady
ever was denied me, even for a moment. I was the sole delight, the
peculiar felicity of a youthful spouse, and, just as he loved me, so did
I equally love him. Oh, how much happier should I have been than all
other women, if the love for him that was then in my heart had endured!

It was, then, while I was living in sweet content, amid every kind of
enjoyment, that Fortune, who quickly changes all things earthly,
becoming envious of the very gifts which she herself had bestowed,
withdrew her protecting hand. At first uncertain in what manner she
could succeed in poisoning my happiness, she at length managed, with
subtle craft, to make mine own very eyes traitors and so guide me into
the path that led to disaster. But the gods were still propitious to me,
nay, were even more concerned for my fate than I myself. Having seen
through her veiled malice, they wished to supply me with weapons, had I
but known how to avail me thereof, wherewith I might fend my breast,
and not go unarmed to the battle wherein I was destined to fall. Yea, on
the very night that preceded the day which was the beginning of all my
woes, they revealed to 
me the future in my sleep by means of a clear and
distinct vision, in such wise as follows:

While lying on my spacious couch, with all my limbs relaxed in deepest
slumber, I seemed to be filled with greater joy than I had ever felt
before, and wherefore I knew not. And the day whereon this happened was
the brightest and loveliest of days. I was standing alone in verdant
grass, when, with the joy whereof I spoke, came the thought to me that
it might be well for me to repose in a meadow that appeared to be
shielded from the fervid rays of the sun by the shadows cast by various
trees newly garbed in their glossy foliage. But first, gathering divers
flowers, wherewith the whole sward was bejeweled, I placed them, with my
white hands, in a corner of my robe, and then, sitting down and choosing
flower after flower, I wove therefrom a fair garland, and adorned my
head with it. And, being so adorned, I arose, and, like unto Proserpine
at what time Pluto ravished her from her mother, I went along singing in
this new springtime. Then, being perchance weary, I laid me down in a
spot where the verdure was deepest and softest. But, just as the tender
foot of Eurydice was pierced by the concealed viper, so meseemed that a
hidden serpent came upon me, as I lay stretched on the grass, and
pierced me under the left breast. The bite of the sharp fang, when it
first entered, seemed to burn me. But afterward, feeling somewhat
reassured, and yet afraid of something worse ensuing, I thought I
clasped the cold serpent to my bosom, fancying that by communicating to
it the warmth of that bosom, I should thereby render it more kindly
disposed in my regard in return for such a service. But the viper, made
bolder and more obdurate by that very favor, laid his hideous mouth on
the wound he had given me, and after a long space, and after it had
drunk much of my blood, methought that, despite my resistance, it drew
forth my soul; and then, leaving my breast, departed with it. And at the
very moment of the serpent's departure the day lost its 
brightness, and
a thick shadow came behind me and covered me all over, and the farther
the serpent crept, the more lowering grew the heavens, and it seemed
almost as if the reptile dragged after it in its course the masses of
thick, black clouds that appeared to follow in its wake, Not long
afterward, just as a white stone flung into deep water gradually
vanishes from the eyes of the beholder, so it, too, vanished from my
sight. Then the heavens became darker and darker, and I thought that the
sun had suddenly withdrawn and night had surely returned, as it had
erstwhile returned to the _Greeks_ because of the crime of Atrcus. Next,
flashes of lightning sped swiftly along the skies, and peals of crashing
thunder appalled the earth and me likewise. And through all, the wound
made in my breast by the bite of the serpent remained with me still, and
full of viperous poison; for no medicinal help was within my reach, so
that my entire body appeared to have swollen in a most foul and
disgusting manner. Whereupon I, who before this seemed to be without
life or motion--why, I do not know--feeling that the force of the venom
was seeking to reach my heart in divers subtle ways, now tossed and
rolled upon the cool grass, expecting death at any moment. But methought
that when the hour of my doom arrived, I was struck with terror at its
approach, and the anguish of my heart was so appalling, while looking
forward to its coming, that my inert body was convulsed with horror, and
so my deep slumber was suddenly broken. No sooner was I fully awake
than, being still alarmed by the things I had seen, I felt with my right
hand for the wound in my breast, searching at the present moment for
that which was already being prepared for my future misery. Finding that
no wound was there, I began to feel quite safe and even merry, and I
made a mock of the folly of dreams and of those who believe in them,
and so I rendered the work of the gods useless. Ah, wretched me! if I
mocked them then, I had good reason to believe in them afterward, to 
my
bitter sorrow and with the shedding of useless tears; good reason had I
also to complain of the gods, who reveal their secrets to mortals in
such mystic guise that the things that are to happen in the future can
hardly be said to be revealed at all. Being then fully awake, I raised
my drowsy head, and, as soon as I saw the light of the new-risen sun
enter my chamber, laying aside every other thought directly, I at once
left my couch.

That day, too, was a day of the utmost solemnity for almost everyone.
Therefore, attiring myself carefully in glittering cloth of gold, and
adorning every part of my person with deft and cunning hand, I made
ready to go to the August festival, appareled like unto the goddesses
seen by Paris in the vale of Ida. And, while I was lost in admiration of
myself, just as the peacock is of his plumage, imagining that the
delight which I took in my own appearance would surely be shared by all
who saw me, a flower from my wreath fell on the ground near the curtain
of my bed, I know not wherefore--perhaps plucked from my head by a
celestial hand by me unseen. But I, careless of the occult signs by
which the gods forewarn mortals, picked it up, replaced it on my head,
and, as if nothing portentous had happened, I passed out from my abode.
Alas! what clearer token of what was to befall me could the gods have
given me? This should have served to prefigure to me that my soul, once
free and sovereign of itself, was on that day to lay aside its
sovereignty and become a slave, as it betided. Oh, if my mind had not
been distempered, I should have surely known that to me that day would
be the blackest and direst of days, and I should have let it pass
without ever crossing the threshold of my home! But although the gods
usually hold forth signs whereby those against whom they are incensed
may be warned, they often deprive them of due understanding; and thus,
while pointing out the path they ought to follow, they at the same time
sate their own anger. My ill fortune, then, thrust me forth from my
hous
e, vain and careless that I was; and, accompanied by several ladies,
I moved with slow step to the sacred temple, in which the solemn
function required by the day was already celebrating. Ancient custom, as
well as my noble estate, had reserved for me a prominent place among the
other ladies. When I was seated, my eyes, as was my habit of old,
quickly wandered around the temple, and I saw that it was crowded with
men and women, who were divided into separate groups. And no sooner was
it observed that I was in the temple than (even while the sacred office
was going on) that happened which had always happened at other times,
and not only did the men turn their eyes to gaze upon me, but the women
did the same, as if Venus or Minerva had newly descended from the skies,
and would never again be seen by them in that spot where I was seated.
Oh, how often I laughed within my own breast, being enraptured with
myself, and taking glory unto myself because of such things, just as if
I were a real goddess! And so, nearly all the young gentlemen left off
admiring the other ladies, and took their station around me, and
straightway encompassed me almost in the form of a complete circle; and,
while speaking in divers ways of my beauty, each finished his praises
thereof with well-nigh the same sentences. But I who, by turning my eyes
in another direction, showed that my mind was intent on other cares,
kept my ears attentive to their discourse and received therefrom much
delectable sweetness; and, as it seemed to me that I was beholden to
them for such pleasure, I sometimes let my eyes rest on them more kindly
and benignantly. And not once, but many times, did I perceive that some
of them, puffed up with vain hopes because of this, boasted foolishly of
it to their companions.

While I, then, in this way looked at a few, and that sparingly, I was
myself looked at by many, and that exceedingly, and while I believed
that my beauty was dazzling others, it came to pass that the beauty of
another dazzled me, to my great tribulation. And
 now, being already
close on the dolorous moment, which was fated to be the occasion either
of a most assured death or of a life of such anguish that none before me
has ever endured the like, prompted by I know not what spirit, I raised
my eyes with decent gravity, and surveyed with penetrating look the
crowds of young men who were standing near me. And I discerned, more
plainly than I saw any of the others, a youth who stood directly in
front of me, all alone, leaning against a marble column; and, being
moved thereto by irresistible fate, I began to take thought within my
mind of his bearing and manners, the which I had never before done in
the case of anyone else. I say, then, that, according to my judgment,
which was not at that time biased by love, he was most beautiful in
form, most pleasing in deportment, and apparently of an honorable
disposition. The soft and silky locks that fell in graceful curls beside
his cheeks afforded manifest proof of his youthfulness. The look
wherewith he eyed me seemed to beg for pity, and yet it was marked by
the wariness and circumspection usual between man and man. Sure I am
that I had still strength enough to turn away my eyes from his gaze, at
least for a time; but no other occurrence had power to divert my
attention from the things already mentioned, and upon which I had deeply
pondered. And the image of his form, which was already in my mind,
remained there, and this image I dwelt upon with silent delight,
affirming within myself that those things were true which seemed to me
to be true; and, pleased that he should look at me, I raised my eyes
betimes to see whether he was still looking at me. But anon I gazed at
him more steadily, making no attempt to avoid amorous snares. And when I
had fixed my eyes on his more intently than was my wont, methought I
could read in his eyes words which might be uttered in this wise:

 "O lady, thou alone art mine only bliss!"

Certainly, if I should say that this idea was not pleasing to me, I
should surely lie, for it drew forth a gent
le sigh from my bosom,
accompanied by these words: "And thou art mine!" unless, perchance, the
words were but the echo of his, caught by my mind and remaining within
it. But what availed it whether such words were spoken or not? The heart
had good understanding within itself of that which was not expressed by
the lips, and kept, too, within itself that which, if it had escaped
outside, might, mayhap, have left me still free. And so, from that time
forward, I gave more absolute liberty to my foolish eyes than ever they
had possessed before, and they were well content withal. And surely, if
the gods, who guide all things to a definite issue, had not deprived me
of understanding, I could still have been mistress of myself. But,
postponing every consideration to the last one that swayed me, I took
delight in following my unruly passion, and having made myself meet, all
at once, for such slavery, I became its thrall. For the fire that leaped
forth from his eyes encountered the light in mine, flashing thereunto a
most subtle ray. It did not remain content therewith, but, by what
hidden ways I know not, penetrated directly into the deepest recesses of
my heart; the which, affrighted by the sudden advent of this flame,
recalled to its center its exterior forces and left me as pale as
death, and also with the chill of death upon me. But not for long did
this continue, rather it happened contrariwise; and I felt my heart not
only glow with sudden beat, but its forces speeded back swiftly to their
places, bringing with them a throbbing warmth that chased away my pallor
and flushed my cheeks deeply; and, marveling wherefore this should
betide, I sighed heavily; nor thereafter was there other thought in my
soul than how I might please him.

In like fashion, he, without changing his place, continued to scrutinize
my features, but with the greatest caution; and, perhaps, having had
much practice in amorous warfare, and knowing by what devices the
longed-for prey might be captured, he showed himself every moment more
humble, mor
e desperate, and more fraught with tender yearning. Alas! how
much guile did that seeming desperation hide, which, as the result has
now shown, though it may have come from the heart, never afterward
returned to the same, and made manifest later that its revealment on the
face was only a lure and a delusion! And, not to mention all his deeds,
each of which was full of most artful deception, he so wrought upon me
by his own craft, or else the fates willed it should so happen, that I
straightway found myself enmeshed in the snares of sudden and
unthought-of love, in a manner beyond all my powers of telling, and so I
remain unto this very hour.

It was this one alone, therefore, most pitiful ladies, that my heart, in
it mad infatuation, chose, not only among so many high-born, handsome
and valiant youths then present, but even among all of the same degree
having their abode in my own Parthenope, as first and last and sole lord
of my life. It was this one alone that I loved, and loved more than any
other. It was this one alone that was destined to be the beginning and
source of my by any pleasure, although often tempted, being at last
vanquished, have burned and now burn in the fire which then first caught
me. Omitting many thoughts that came into my mind, and many things that
were told me, I will only say that, intoxicated by a new passion, I
returned with a soul enslaved to that spot whence I had gone forth in
freedom.

When I was in my chamber, alone and unoccupied, inflamed with various
wild wishes, filled with new sensations and throbbing with many
anxieties, all of which were concentrated on the image of the youth who
pleased me, I argued within myself that if I could not banish love from
my luckless bosom, I might at least be able to keep cautious and secret
control of it therein; and how hard it is to do such a thing, no one can
discover who does not make trial of the same. Surely do I believe that
not even Love himself can cause so great anguish as such an attempt is
certain to produce. Furthermore, I was ar
rested in my purpose by the
fact that I had no acquaintance with him of whom I professed myself
enamored. To relate all the thoughts that were engendered in me by this
love, and of what nature they were, would take altogether too much time.
But some few I must perforce declare, as well as certain things that
were beginning to delight me more than usual. I say, then, that,
everything else being neglected, the only thing that was dear to me was
the thought of my beloved, and, when it occurred to my mind that, by
persevering in this course, I might, mayhap, give occasion to some one
to discover that which I wished to conceal, I often upbraided myself for
my folly. But what availed it all? My upbraidings had to give way to my
inordinate yearning for him, and dissolved uselessly into thin air.

For several days I longed exceedingly to learn who was the youth I
loved, toward whom my thoughts were ever clearly leading me; and this I
craftily learned, the which filled me with great content. In like
manner, the ornaments for which I had before this in no way cared, as
having but little need thereof, began to be dear to me, thinking that
the more I was adorned the better should I please. Wherefore I prized
more than hitherto my garments, gold, pearls, and my other precious
things. Until the present moment it had been my custom to frequent
churches, gardens, festivals, and seaside resorts, without other wish
than the companionship of young friends of my own sex; now, I sought the
aforesaid places with a new desire, believing that both to see and be
seen would bring me great delectation. But, in sooth, the trust which I
was wont to place in my beauty had deserted me, and now I never left my
chamber, without first seeking the faithful counsel of my mirror: and my
hands, newly instructed thereunto by I know not what cunning master,
discovering each day some more elegant mode of adornment than the day
before, and deftly adding artificial charms to my natural loveliness,
thereby caused me to outshine all the other ladies in my s
urpassing
splendor. Furthermore, I began to wish for the honors usually paid to me
by ladies, because of their gracious courtesy, though, perhaps, they
were rather the guerdon of my noble birth, being due to me therefor,
thinking that if I appeared so magnificent to my beloved's eyes, he
would take the more delight in beholding me. Avarice, too, which is
inborn in women, fled from me, so that I became free and openhanded, and
regarded my own possessions almost as if they were not my own. The
sedateness that beseems a woman fell away from me somewhat, and I grew
bolder in my ways; and, in addition to all this, my eyes, which until
that day looked out on the world simply and naturally, entirely changed
their manner of looking, and became so artful in their office that it
was a marvel. And many other alterations appeared in me over and above
these, all of which I do not care to relate, for besides that the
report thereof would be too tedious, I ween full well that you, like me,
also have been, or are, in love, and know what changes take place in
those who are in such sad case.

He was a most wary and circumspect youth, whereunto my experience was
able to bear witness frequently. Going very rarely, and always in the
most decorous manner, to the places where I happened to be, he used to
observe me, but ever with a cautious eye, so that it seemed as if he had
planned as well as I to hide the tender flames that glowed in the
breasts of both. Certainly, if I denied that love, although it had
clutched every corner of my heart and taken violent possession of every
recess of my soul, grew even more intense whenever it happened that my
eyes encountered his, I should deny the truth; he added further fuel to
the fires that consumed me, and rekindled such as might be expiring, if,
mayhap, there were any such. But the beginning of all this was by no
means so cheerful as the ending was joyless, as soon as I was deprived
of the sight of this, my beloved, inasmuch as the eyes, being thus
robbed of their delight, gave woful occasion
 of lamentation to the
heart, the sighs whereof grew greater in quality as well as in quantity,
and desire, as if seizing my every feeling, took me away from myself,
and, as if I were not where I was, I frequently gave him who saw me
cause for amazement by affording numberless pretexts for such
happenings, being taught by love itself. In addition to this, the quiet
of the night and the thoughts on which my fancy fed continuously, by
taking me out of myself, sometimes moved me to actions more frantic than
passionate and to the employment of unusual words.

But it happened that while my excess of ornaments, heartfelt sighs, lost
rest, strange actions, frantic movements, and other effects of my recent
love, attracted the notice of the other domestics of the household, they
especially struck with wonder a nurse of mine, old in years and
experienced, and of sound judgment, who, though well aware of the flames
that tortured my breast, yet making show of not knowing thereof,
frequently chided me for my altered manners. One day in particular,
finding me lying disconsolate on my couch, seeing that my brow was
charged with doleful thoughts, and believing that we were not likely to
be interrupted by other company, she began to speak as follows:

"My dearest daughter, whom I love as my very self, tell me, I pray you,
what are the sorrows that have for some time past been harassing you?
You who were wont to be so gay formerly, you whom I have never seen
before with a mournful countenance, seem to me now to be the prey of
grief and to let no moment pass without a sigh."

Then, having at first feigned to be asleep and not to have heard her, I
heaved a deep sigh, and, my face, at one time flushing, at another
turning pale, I tossed about on the couch, seeking what answer I should
make, though, indeed, in my agitation, my tongue could hardly shape a
perfect sentence. But, at length, I answered:

"Indeed, dear nurse, no fresh sorrows harass me; nor do I feel that I am
in any way different from what I am wont to be. Perhaps some tr
oubles I
may have, but they are such as are incidental to all women."

"Most certainly, you are trying to deceive me, my child," returned the
aged nurse, "and you seem not to reflect how serious a matter it is to
attempt to lead persons of experience to believe one thing because it is
couched in words and to disbelieve the opposite, although it is made
plainly evident by deeds. There is no reason why you should hide from me
a fact whereof I have had perfect knowledge since several days ago."

Alas! when I heard her speak thus, provoked and stung by her words, I
said:

"If, then, thou wittest of all this, wherefore dost thou question me?
All that thou hast to do now is to keep secret that which thou hast
discovered."

"In good truth," she replied, "I will conceal all that which it is not
meet that another should know, and may the earth open and engulf me in
its bowels before I ever reveal aught that might turn to thy open shame!
Therefore, do thou live assured of this, and guard thyself carefully
from letting another know that which I, without either thyself or anyone
else telling me, have learned from observing thy looks. As for myself,
it is not now, but long ere now, that I have learned to keep hidden that
which should not be disclosed. Therefore, do thou continue to feel
secure as to this matter, and watch most carefully that thou lettest not
another know that which I, not witting it from thee or from another,
most surely have discovered from thine own face and from its changeful
seeming. But, if thou art still the victim of that folly by which I know
thou hast been enslaved, if thou art as prone now as erewhile to indulge
that feeling to which thou hast already given way, then know I right
well that I must leave thee to thy own devices, for bootless will be my
teachings and my warnings. Still, although this cruel tyrant, to whom in
thy youthful simplicity being taken by surprise thou hast yielded thy
freedom, appears to have deprived thee of understanding as well as of
liberty, I will put thee in mind of many
 things, and entreat thee to
fling off and banish wicked thoughts from thy chaste bosom, to quench
that unholy fire, and not to make thyself the thrall of unworthy hopes.
Now is the time to be strong in resistance; for whoso makes a stout
fight in the beginning roots out an unhallowed affection, and bears
securely the palm of victory; but whoso, with long and wishful fancies,
fosters it, will try too late to resist a yoke that has been submitted
to almost unresistingly."

"Alas!" I replied, "how far easier it is to say such things than to
lead them to any good result."

"Albeit they be not easy of fulfilment," she said, "yet are they
possible, and they are things that it beseems you to do. Take thou
thought whether it would be fitting that for such a thing as this thou
shouldst lose the luster of thy exalted parentage, the great fame of thy
virtue, the flower of thy beauty, the honor in which thou art now held,
and, above all, the favor of the spouse whom thou hast loved and by whom
thou art loved: certainly, thou shouldst not wish for this; nor do I
believe thou wouldst wish it, if thou didst but weigh the matter
seriously in thine own mind. Wherefore, in the name of God, forbear, and
drive from thy heart the false delights promised by a guilty hope, and,
with them, the madness that has seized thee. By this aged breast, long
harassed by many cares, from which thou didst take thy first nutriment,
I humbly beseech thee to have the courage to aid thyself, to have a
concern for thine own honor, and not to disdain my warnings. Bethink
thee that the very desire to be healed is itself often productive of
health."

Whereto I thus made answer:

"Only too well do I know, dear nurse, the truth of that which thou
sayest. But a furious madness constrains me to follow the worse course;
vainly does my heart, insatiable in its desires, long for strength to
enable it to adopt thy advice; what reason enjoins is rendered of no
avail by this soul-subduing passion. My mind is wholly possessed by
Love, who rules every part thereof, i
n virtue of his all-embracing
deity; and surely thou art aware that his power is absolute, and 'twere
useless to attempt to resist it."

Having said these words, I became almost unconscious, and fell into her
arms. But she, now more agitated than before, in austere and rebuking
tones, said:

"Yes, forsooth, well am I aware that you and a number of fond young
women, inflamed and instigated thereunto by vain thoughts, have
discovered Love to be a god, whereas a juster name for him would be that
of demon; and you and they call him the son of Venus, and say that his
strength has come to him from the third heaven, wishing, seemingly, to
offer necessity as an excuse for your foolishness. Oh, was ever woman so
misled as thou? Truly, thou must be bereft entirely of understanding!
What a thing thou sayest! Love a deity! Love is a madness, thrust forth
from hell by some fury. He speeds across the earth in hasty flight, and
they whom he visits soon discover that he brings no deity with him, but
frenzy rather; yet none will he visit except those abounding overmuch in
earthly felicity; for they, he knows, in their overweening conceit, are
ready to afford him lodgment and shelter. This has been proven to us by
many facts. Do we not see that Venus, the true, the heavenly Venus,
often dwells in the humblest cot, her sole concern being the
perpetuation of our race? But this god, whom some in their folly name
Love, always hankering after things unholy, ministers only to those
whose fortunes are prosperous. This one, recoiling from those whose food
and raiment suffice to meet the demands of nature, uses his best efforts
to win over the pampered and the splendidly attired, and with their food
and their habiliments he mixes his poisons, and so gains the lordship of
their wicked souls; and, for this reason, he gladly seeks a harborage in
lofty palaces, and seldom, or rather never, enters the houses of the
lowly, because this horrible plague always resorts by choice to scenes
of elegance and refinement, well knowing that such places ar
e best
fitted for the achievement of his fell purposes. It is easy for us to
see that among the humble the affections are sane and well ordered; but
the rich, on the other hand, everywhere pluming themselves on their
riches, and being insatiable in their pursuit of other things as well as
of wealth, always show more eagerness therein than is becoming; and they
who can do much desire furthermore to have the power of doing that which
they must not do: among whom I feel that thou hast placed thyself, O
most hapless of women, seeing that thou hast already entered and
traveled far on a path that will surely lead to guilt and misery."

After hearing which, I said:

"Be silent, old woman, and provoke not the wrath of the gods by thy
speech. Now that thou art incapacitated from love by age and rejected by
all the gods, thou railest against this one, blaspheming him in whom
thou didst erstwhile take delight. If other ladies, far more puissant,
famous, and wise than I, have formerly called him by that name, it is
not in my power to give him a name anew. By him am I now truly enslaved;
whatever be the cause of this, and whether it be the occasion of my
happiness or misery, I am helpless. The strength wherewith I once
opposed him has been vanquished and has abandoned me. Therefore either
death or the youth for whom I languish can alone end my tortures. If
thou art, then, as wise as I hold thee to be, bestow such counsel and
help on me as may lighten my anguish, or, at least, abstain from
exasperating it by censuring that to which my soul, unable to act
differently, is inclined with all its energy."

Thereupon, she, being angry, and not without reason, making no answer,
but muttering to herself, passed out of the chamber and left me alone.

When my dear nurse had departed without making further discourse, and I
was again alone, I felt that I had acted ill in despising her advice. I
revolved her sayings within my restless breast; and, albeit my
understanding was blinded, I perceived that what she had said was
replete with wisd
om, and, almost repenting of what I had uttered and of
the course which I had declared I purposed taking, I was wavering in my
mind. And, already beginning to have thoughts of abandoning that course
which was sure to be in every way most harmful, I was about to call her
back to give me encouragement, when a new and unforeseen event suddenly
changed my intention. For a most beautiful lady, come to my private
chamber I know not whence, presented herself before my eyes, enveloped
in such dazzling light that scarcely could my sight endure the
brightness thereof. But while she stood still and silent before me, the
effulgent radiance that had almost blinded my vision, after a time left
it unobscured, and I was able so to portray her every aspect to my mind,
as her whole beauteous figure was impressed on my memory. I saw that she
was nude, except for a thin and delicate drapery of purple, which,
albeit in some parts it covered the milk-white body, yet no more
concealed it from my ravished eyes than does the transparent glass
conceal the portrait beneath it. Her head, the hair whereof as much
surpassed gold in its luster as gold surpasses the yellowest tresses to
be found among mortals, was garlanded with a wreath of green myrtle,
beneath whose shadow I beheld two eyes of peerless splendor, so
enchanting that I could have gazed on them forever; they flashed forth
such luminous beams that it was a marvel; and all the rest of her
countenance had such transcendent loveliness that the like never was
seen here below. At first she spake no word, perchance content that I
should look upon her, or perchance seeing me so content to look upon
her. Then gradually through the translucent radiance, she revealed more
clearly every hidden grace, for she was aware that I could not believe
such beauty possible except I beheld it with my eyes, and that even then
words would fail me to picture it to mortals with my tongue. At last,
when she observed that I had sated my eyes with gazing on her, and when
she saw that her coming hither was as 
wondrous to me as her loveliness,
with smiling face, and in a voice sweeter than can be conceived by minds
like ours, she thus addressed me:

"Prithee, young woman, what art thou, the most fickle of thy sex,
preparing to do in obedience to the late counsels of thy aged nurse?
Knowest thou not that such counsels are far harder to follow than that
very love which thou desirest to flee? Hast thou reflected on the dire
and unendurable torments which compliance with them will entail on thee?
O most insensate one! dost thou then, who only a few hours ago wert my
willing vassal, now wish to break away from my gentle rule, because,
forsooth, of the words of an old woman, who is no longer vassal of mine,
as if, like her, thou art now unwitting of what delights I am the
source? O most witless of women! forbear, and reflect whether thou
shouldst not find befitting happiness in that which makes the happiness
of Heaven and earth. All things that Phoebus beholds during the bright
day, from what time he emerges from Ganges, until he plunges with his
tired steeds into the Hesperian waves, to seek due repose after his
wearisome pilgrimage; all things that are confined between cold Arcturus
and the red-hot pole, all own the absolute and authentic lordship of my
winged son; and in Heaven not only is he esteemed a god, like the other
deities, but he is so much more puissant than them all that not one
remains who has not heretofore been vanquished by his darts. He, flying
on golden plumage throughout his realms, with such swiftness that his
passage can hardly be discerned, visits them all in turn, and, bending
his strong bow, to the drawn string he fits the arrows forged by me and
tempered in the fountains sacred to my divinity. And when he elects
anyone to his service, as being more worthy than others, that one he
rules as it likes him. He kindles raging fires in the hearts of the
young, fans the flames that are almost dead in the old, awakens the
fever of passion in the chaste bosoms of virgins and instils a genial
warmth into the 
breasts of wives and widows equally. He has even
aforetime forced the gods, wrought up to a frenzy by his blazing torch,
to forsake the heavens and dwell on earth under false appearances.
Whereof the proofs are many. Was not Phoebus, though victor over huge
Python and creator of the celestial strains that sound from the lyres of
Parnassus, by him made the thrall, now of Daphne, now of Clymene, and
again of Leucothea, and of many others withal? Certainly, this was so.
And, finally, hiding his brightness under the form of a shepherd, did
not Apollo tend the flocks of Admetus? Even Jove himself, who rules the
skies, by this god coerced, molded his greatness into forms inferior to
his own. Sometimes, in shape of a snow-white fowl, he gave voice to
sounds sweeter than those of the dying swan, and anon, changing to a
young bull and fitting horns to his brow, he bellowed along the plains,
and humbled his proud flanks to the touch of a virgin's knees, and,
compelling his tired hoofs to do the office of oars, he breasted the
waves of his brother's kingdom, yet sank not in its depths, but joyously
bore away his prize. I shall not discourse unto you of his pursuit of
Semele under his proper form, or of Alcmena, in guise of Amphitryon, or
of Callisto, under the semblance of Diana, or of Danae for whose sake he
became a shower of gold, seeing that in the telling thereof I should
waste too much time. Nay, even the savage god of war, whose strength
appalls the giants, repressed his wrathful bluster, being forced to such
submission by this my son, and became gentle and loving. And the forger
of Jupiter, and artificer of his three-pronged thunderbolts, though
trained to handle fire, was smitten by a shaft more potent than he
himself had ever wrought. Nay I, though I be his mother, have not been
able to fend off his arrows: Witness the tears I have shed for the death
of Adonis! But why weary myself and thee with the utterance of so many
words? There is no deity in heaven who has passed unscathed from his
assaults; except, perhaps,
 Diana only, who may have escaped him by
fleeing to the woods; though some there be who tell that she did not
flee, but rather concealed the wound. If haply, however, thou, in the
hardness of thy unbelief, rejectest the testimony of heaven, and
searchest rather for examples of those in this nether world who have
felt his power, I affirm them to be so multitudinous that where to begin
I know not. Yet this much may I tell thee truly: all who have confessed
his sway have been men of might and valor. Consider attentively, in the
first place, that undaunted son of Alcmena, who, laying aside his arrows
and the formidable skin of the huge lion, was fain to adorn his fingers
with green emeralds, and to smooth and adjust his bristling and
rebellions hair. Nay, that hand which aforetime had wielded the terrific
club, and slain therewith Antaeus, and dragged the hound of hell from the
lower world, was now content to draw the woolen threads spun from
Omphale's distaff; and the shoulders whereon had rested the pillars of
the heavens, from which he had for a time freed Atlas, were now clasped
in Omphale's arms, and afterward, to do her pleasure, covered with a
diaphanous raiment of purple. Need I relate what Paris did in obedience
to the great deity? or Helen? or Clytemnestra? or AEgisthus? These are
things that are well known to all the world. Nor do I care to speak of
Achilles, or of Scylla, of Ariadne or Leander, of Dido, or of many
others, of whom the same tale could be told, were there need to tell it.
Believe me when I affirm that this fire is holy, and most potent as
well. Thou hast heard that heaven and earth are subject to my son
because of his lordship over gods and men. But what shall I say of the
power that he exercises over irrational animals, whether celestial or
terrene? It is through him that the turtle is fain to follow her mate;
it is through him that my pigeons have learned to caress his ringdoves
with fondest endearments. And there is no creeping or living creature
that has ever at any time attempted to esc
ape from his puissance: in the
woods the timid stag, made fierce by his touch, becomes brave for sake
of the coveted hind and by bellowing and fighting, they prove how strong
are the witcheries of Love. The ferocious boars are made by Love to
froth at the mouth and sharpen their ivory tusks; the African lions,
when Love quickens them, shake their manes in fury. But leaving the
groves and forests, I assert that even in the chilly waters the
numberless divinities of the sea and of the flowing rivers are not safe
from the bolts of my son. Neither can I for a moment believe that thou
art ignorant of the testimony thereof which has been rendered by
Neptune, Glaucus, Alpheus, and others too numerous to mention: not only
were they unable to quench the flame with their dank waters, but they
could not even moderate its fury, which, when it had made its might
felt, both on the earth and in the waters, continued its onward course,
and rested not until it had penetrated into the gloomy realms of Dis.
Therefore Heaven and Earth and Ocean and Hell itself have had experience
of the potency of his weapons. And, in order that thou mayest understand
in a few words the power of the deity, I tell thee that, while
everything succumbs to nature, and nothing can ever be emancipated from
her dominion, Nature herself is but the servant of Love. When he
commands, ancient hatreds perish, and angry moods, be they old or new,
give place to his fires; and lastly, his sway has such far-reaching
influence that even stepmothers become gracious to their stepchildren, a
thing which it is a marvel to behold. Therefore what seekest thou? Why
dost thou hesitate? Why dost thou rashly avoid him? When so many gods,
when so many men, when so many animals, have been vanquished by him, art
ashamed to be vanquished by him also? In good sooth, thou weenest not
what thou art doing. If thou fearest to be blamed for thy obedience to
him, a blame so unmerited never can be thy portion. Greater sins than
thou canst commit have been committed by thousands far great
er than
thou, and these sins would plead as thy excuse, shouldst thou pursue
that course which others have pursued--others who far excel thee. Thou
wilt have sinned but a little, seeing that thou hadst far less power of
resistance than those aforementioned. But if my words move thee not, and
thou wouldst still wish to withstand the god, bethink thee that thy
power falls far short of that of Jove, and that in judgment thou canst
not equal Phoebus, nor in wealth Juno, nor me in beauty; and yet, we all
have been conquered. Thou art greatly deceived, and I fear me that thou
must perish in the end, if thou persist in thy changed purpose. Let that
which has erstwhile sufficed for the whole world, suffice for thee, nor
try to render thyself cold-hearted, by saying: 'I have a husband, and
the holy laws and the vowed faith forbid me this'; for bootless are such
reasonings against the puissance of this god. He discards the laws of
others scornfully, as thinking them of no account, and ordains his own.
Pasiphae? had a husband, and Phaedra, and I, too, even though I have
loved. And it is these same husbands who most frequently fall in love
with others, albeit they have wives of their own: witness Jason and
Theseus and valiant Hector and Ulysses. Therefore to men we do no wrong
if we apply to them the same laws that they apply to others; for to
them no privilege has been granted which is not accorded to us withal.
Banish, then, thy foolish thoughts, and, in all security, go on loving
him whom thou hadst already begun to love. In good sooth, if thou
refusest to own the power of mighty Love, it behooves thee to fly; but
whither canst thou fly? Knowest thou of any retreat where he will not
follow and overtake thee? He has in all places equal puissance. Go
wheresoever thou wilt, never canst thou pass across the borders of his
realms, and within these realms vain it is for mortals to try to hide
themselves when he would smite them. But let it comfort thee to know,
young woman, that no such odious passion shall trouble thee as erst
while
was the scourge of Myrrha, Semiramis, Byblis, Canace, and Cleopatra.
Nothing strange or new will be wrought by my son in thy regard. He has,
as have the other gods, his own special laws, which thou art not the
first to obey, and shouldst not be the last to entertain hopes
therefrom. If haply thou believest that thou art without companions in
this, foolish is thy belief. Let us pass by the other world, which is
fraught with such happenings; but observe attentively only thine own
city! What an infinite number of ladies it can show who are in the same
case with thyself! And remember that what is done by so many cannot be
deemed unseemly. Therefore, be thou of our following, and return thanks
to our beauty, which thou hast so closely examined. But return special
thanks to our deity, which has sundered thee from the ranks of the
simple, and persuaded thee to become acquainted with the delights that
our gifts bestow."

Alas! alas! ye tender and compassionate ladies, if Love has been
propitious to your desires, say what could I, what should I, answer to
such and so great words uttered by so great a goddess, if not: "Be it
done unto me according to thy pleasure"? And so, I affirm that as soon
as she had closed her lips, having already harvested within my
understanding all her words, and feeling that every word was charged
with ample excuse for what I might do, and knowing now how mighty she
was and how resistless, I resolved at once to submit to her guidance;
and instantly rising from my couch, and kneeling on the ground, with
humbled heart, I thus began, in abashed and tremulous accents:

"O peerless and eternal loveliness! O divinest of deities! O sole
mistress of all my thoughts! whose power is felt to be most invincible
by those who dare to try to withstand it, forgive the ill-timed
obstinacy wherewith I, in my great folly, attempted to ward off from my
breast the weapons of thy son, who was then to me an unknown divinity.
Now, I repeat, be it done unto me according to thy pleasure, and
according to thy promise
s withal. Surely, my faith merits a due reward
in time and space, seeing that I, taking delight in thee more than do
all other women, wish to see the number of thy subjects increase forever
and ever."

Hardly had I made an end of speaking these words, when she moved from
the place where she was standing, and came toward me. Then, her face
glowing with the most fervent expression of affection and sympathy, she
embraced me, and touched my forehead with her divine lips. Next, just as
the false Ascanius, when panting in the arms of Dido, breathed on her
mouth, and thereby kindled the latent flame, so did she breathe on my
mouth, and, in that wise, rendered the divine fire that slumbered in my
heart more uncontrollable than ever, and this I felt at that very
moment. Thereafter, opening a little her purple robe, she showed me,
clasped in her arms against her ravishing breast, the very counterpart
of the youth I loved, wrapped in the transparent folds of a Grecian
mantle, and revealing in the lineaments of his countenance pangs that
were not unlike those I suffered.

"O damsel," she said, "rivet thy gaze on the youth before thee: we have
not given thee for lover a Lissa, a Geta, or a Birria, or anyone
resembling them, but a person in every way worthy of being loved by
every goddess in the heavens. Thee he loves more than himself, as we
have ordained, and thee will he ever love; therefore do thou, joyfully
and securely, abandon thyself to his love. Thy prayers have moved us to
pity, as it is meet that prayers so deserving should, and so, be of good
hope, and fear not that thou shalt be without the reward due thee in the
future."

And thereafter she suddenly vanished from my eyes. _Oime!_ wretched me!
I do not for a moment doubt now, after considering the things which
followed, that this one who appeared unto me was not Venus, but rather
Tisiphone, who, doffing from her head the horrid snakes that served it
for hair, and assuming for the while the splendid form of the Goddess of
Love, in this manner lured me with deceitfu
l counsels to that disaster
which at length overwhelmed me. Thus did Juno, but in different fashion,
veiling the radiance of her deity and transforming herself for the
occasion into the exact likeness of her aged nurse, persuaded Semele to
her undoing. Woe is me! my resolve to be so advised was the cause--O
hallowed Modesty! O Chastity, most sacred of all the virtues! sole and
most precious treasure of righteous women!--was the cause, I repeat,
wherefore I drove ye from my bosom. Yet do I venture to pray unto ye for
pardon, and surely the sinner who repents and perseveres in repentance
should in due season obtain your forgiveness.

Although the goddess had disappeared from my sight, my whole soul,
nevertheless, continued to crave her promised delights; and, albeit the
ardor of the passion that vexed my soul deprived me of every other
feeling, one piece of good fortune, for what deserving of mine I know
not, remained to me out of so many that had been lost--namely, the power
of knowing that seldom if ever has a smooth and happy ending been
granted to love, if that love be divulged and blazed abroad. And for
this reason, when influenced by my highest thoughts, I resolved,
although it was a most serious thing to do so, not to set will above
reason in carrying this my desire unto an ending. And assuredly,
although I have often been most violently constrained by divers
accidents to follow certain courses, yet so much grace was conceded to
me that, sustained by my own firmness, I passed through these agonies
without revealing the pangs that tortured me. And in sooth, I have still
resolution enough to continue to follow out this my purpose; so that,
although the things I write are most true, I have so disposed them that
no one, however keen his sagacity, can ever discover who I am, except
him who is as well acquainted with these matters as I, being, indeed,
the occasion of them all. And I implore him, should this little book
ever come into his hands, in the name of that love which he once bore
me, to conceal that which,
 if disclosed, would turn neither to his
profit nor honor. And, albeit he has deprived me of himself, and that
through no fault of mine, let him not take it upon himself to deprive me
of that honor which I still possess, although, perchance, undeservedly;
for should he do so, he could never again give it back to me, any more
than he can now give me back himself.

Having, therefore, formed my plans in this wise, I showed the most
long-suffering patience in manifesting my keenest and most covetous
yearnings, and I used my best efforts, but only in secret ways and when
opportunities were afforded me, to light in this young man's soul the
same flames wherewith my own soul glowed, and to make him as
circumspect as myself withal. Nor, in truth, was this for me a task of
great difficulty; for, inasmuch as the lineaments of the face always
bear most true witness to the qualities of the heart, it was not long
before I became aware that my desire would have its full fruition. I
perceived that, not only was he throbbing with amorous enthusiasm, but
that he was also imbued with most perfect discretion, and this was
exceedingly pleasing to me. He, being at once wishful to preserve my
honor in all its luster, and, at the same time, to arrange convenient
times and places for our meetings, employed many ingenious stratagems,
which, methinks, must have cost him much toil and trouble. He used every
subtle art to win the friendship of all who were related to me, and, at
last, of my husband; and not only did he enjoy their friendship, but he
possessed it in such a supreme degree that no pleasure was agreeable to
them unless he shared it. How much all this delighted me you will
understand without its being needful to me to set it down in words. And
is there anyone so dull of wit as not to conclude that from the
aforesaid friendship arose many opportunities for him and me of holding
discourse together in public? But already had he bethought himself of
acting in more subtle ways; and now he would speak to this one, now to
that one, wor
ds whereby I, being most eager for such enlightenment,
discovered that whatever he said to these was fraught with figurative
and hidden meanings, intended to show forth his ardent affection for
myself. When he was sensible that I had a clear perception of the occult
significance of his questions and answers, he went still further, and by
gestures, and mobile changes in the expression of his features, he would
make known to me his thoughts and the various phases of his passion,
which was to me a source of much delectation; and I strove so hard to
comprehend it all and to make fitting response thereunto, that neither
could he shadow forth anything to me, nor I to him, that either of us
did not at once understand.

Nay, not satisfied even with this, he employed other symbols and
metaphors, and labored earnestly to discipline me in such manner of
speech; and, to render me the more assured of his unalterable love, he
named me Fiammetta, and himself Panfilo. Woe is me! How often, when
warmed with love and wine, did we tell tales, in the presence of our
dearest friends, of Fiammetta and Panfilo, feigning that they were
Greeks of the days of old, I at one time, he at another; and the tales
were all of ourselves; how we were first caught in the snares of Love,
and of what tribulations we were long the victims, giving suitable names
to the places and persons connected with the story! Certainly, I
frequently laughed at it all, being made merry by the simplicity of the
bystanders, as well as by his astuteness and sagacity. Yet betimes I
dreaded that in the flush of his excitement he might thoughtlessly let
his tongue wander in directions wherein it was not befitting it should
venture. But he, being ever far wiser than I imagined, guarded himself
craftily from any such blundering awkwardness.

_Oime!_ most compassionate ladies, what is there that Love will not
teach to his subjects? and what is there that he is not able to render
them skilful in learning? I, who of all young women was the most
simple-minded, and ordinarily wi
th barely power to loose my tongue, when
among my companions, concerning the most trivial and ordinary affairs,
now, because of this my affection, mastered so speedily all his modes of
speech that, in a brief space, my aptness at feigning and inventing
surpassed that of any poet! And there were few questions put to me in
response to which, after meditating on their main points, I could not
make up a pleasing tale: a thing, in my opinion, exceedingly difficult
for a young woman to begin, and still more difficult to finish and
relate afterward. But, if my actual situation required it, I might set
down numerous details which might, perhaps, seem to you of little or no
moment, as, for instance, the artful experiment whereby we tested the
fidelity of my favorite maid to whom, and to whom alone, we meditated
entrusting the secret of this hidden passion, considering that, should
another share it, our uneasiness, lest it should not be kept, would be
most grievous. Furthermore, it would weary you if I mentioned all the
plans we adopted, in order to meet divers situations, plans that I do
not believe were ever imagined by any before us; and albeit I am now
well aware that they all worked for my ultimate destruction, yet the
remembrance of them does not displease me.

Unless, O ladies, my judgment be greatly at fault, the strength of our
minds was by no means small, if it be but taken in account how hard a
thing it is for youthful persons in love to resist long the rush of
impetuous ardor without crossing the bounds set by reason: nay, it was
so great and of such quality that the most valiant of men, by acting in
such wise, would win high and worthy laud as a result thereof. But my
pen is now about to depict the final ending to which love was guided,
and, before I do so, I would appeal to your pity and to those soft
sentiments which make their dwelling in your tender breasts, and incline
your thoughts to a like termination.

Day succeeded day, and our wishes dragged along with them, kept alive by
torturing anxiety, the full
 bitterness whereof each of us experienced;
although the one manifested this to the other in disguised language, and
the other showed herself over-discreet to an excessive degree; all of
which you who know how ladies who are beloved behave in such
circumstances will easily understand. Well, then, he, putting full trust
in the veiled meaning of my words, and choosing the proper time and
place, came to an experience of that which I desired as much as he,
although I feigned the contrary. Certainly, if I were to say that this
was the cause of the love I felt for him, I should also have to confess
that every time it came back to my memory, it was the occasion to me of
a sorrow like unto none other. But, I call God to witness, nothing that
has happened between us had the slightest influence upon the love I bore
him, nor has it now. Still, I will not deny that our close intimacy was
then, and is now, most dear to me. And where is the woman so unwise as
not to wish to have the object of her affection within reach rather than
at a distance? How much more intensely does love enthrall us when it is
brought so near us that we and it are made almost inseparable! I say,
then, that after such an adventure, never afore willed or even thought
of by me, not once, but many times did fortune and our adroit stratagems
bring us good cheer and consolation, not indeed screened entirely from
danger, for which I cared less than for the passing of the fleeing wind.
But while the time was being spent in such joyous fashion--and that it
was joyous, Love, who alone may bear witness thereof, can truly say--yet
sometimes his coming inspired me with not a little natural apprehension,
inasmuch as he was beginning to be indiscreet in the manner of his
coming. But how dear to him was my own apartment, and with what gladness
did it see him enter! Yet was he filled with more reverence for it than
he ever had been for a sacred temple, and this I could at all times
easily discern. Woe is me! what burning kisses, what tender embraces,
what delicious mom
ents we had there!

Why do I take such pleasure in the mere words which I am now setting
down? It is, I say, because I am forced to express the gratitude I then
felt to the holy goddess who was the promiser and bestower of Love's
delights. Ah, how often did I visit her altars and offer incense,
crowned with a garland of her favorite foliage! How often did I think
scornfully of the counsels of my aged nurse! Nay, furthermore, being
elated far more than all my other companions, how often did I disparage
their loves, saying within myself: "No one is loved as I am loved, no
one loves a youth as matchless as the youth I love, no one realizes such
delights from love as I!" In short, I counted the world as nothing in
comparison with my love. It seemed to me that my head touched the skies,
and that nothing was lacking to the culmination of my ecstatic bliss.
Betimes the idea flashed on my mind that I must disclose to others the
occasion of my transports, for surely, I would reflect, it would be a
delight to others to hear of that which has brought such delight to me!
But thou, O Shame, on the one side, and thou, O Fear, on the other, did
hold me back: the one threatening me with eternal infamy; the other with
loss of that which hostile Fortune was soon afterward to tear from me.
In such wise then, did I live for some time, for it was then pleasing to
Love that I should live in this manner; and, in good sooth, so blithely
and joyously were these days spent that I had little cause to envy any
lady in the whole world, never imagining that the delight wherewith my
heart was filled to overflowing, was to nourish the root and plant of my
future misery, as I now know to my fruitless and never-ending sorrow.

End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of La Fiammetta, by Giovanni Boccaccio

***
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Suzanne Shell, Danny Wool, Luiz Antonio de Souza,
Elisa Williams, Tonya Allen and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE MYSTERY

BY

STEWART EDWARD WHITE

AND

SAMUEL HOPKINS ADAMS

_Illustrations by Will Crawford_

1907

CONTENTS

PART ONE

THE SEA RIDDLE

I. DESERT SEAS

II. THE "LAUGHING LASS"

III. THE DEATH SHIP

IV. THE SECOND PRIZE CREW

V. THE DISAPPEARANCE

VI. THE CASTAWAYS

VII. THE FREE LANCE

PART TWO

THE BRASS BOUND CHEST

_Being the story told by Ralph Slade, Free Lance, to the officers of
the United States Cruiser "Wolverine"_

I. THE BARBARY COAST

II. THE GRAVEN IMAGE

III. THE TWELVE REPEATING RIFLES

IV. THE STEEL CLAW

V. THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE

VI. THE ISLAND

VII. CAPTAIN SELOVER LOSES HIS NERVE

VIII. WRECKING OF THE "GOLDEN HORN"

IX. THE EMPTY BRANDY BOTTLE

X. CHANGE OF MASTERS

XI. THE CORROSIVE

XII. "OLD SCRUBS" COMES ASHORE

XIII. I MAKE MY ESCAPE

XIV. AN ADVENTURE IN THE NIGHT

XV. FIVE HUNDRED YARDS' RANGE

XVI. THE MURDER

XVII. THE OPEN SEA

XVIII. THE CATASTROPHE

PART THREE

THE MAROON

I. IN THE WARDROOM

II. THE JOLLY ROGER

III. THE CACHE

IV. THE TWIN SLABS

V. THE PINWHEEL VOLCANO

VI. MR. DARROW RECEIVES

VII. THE SURVIVORS

VIII. THE MAKER OF MARVELS

IX. THE ACHIEVEMENT

X. THE DOOM

ILLUSTRATIONS

"And you know a heap too much"

A schooner comporting herself in a manner uncommon on the Pacific

A man who was a bit of a mechanic was set to work to open the chest

Slowly the man defined himself as a shape takes form in a fog

"These sheep had become as wild as deer"

The firing now became miscellaneous. No one paid any attention to any one
else

With a strangled cry the sailor cast the shirt from him

"Sorry not to have met you at the door," he said courteously

PART ONE

THE SEA RIDDLE

I

DESERT SEAS

The late afternoon sky flaunted its splendour of blue and gold like a
banner over the Pacific, across whose depths the trade wind droned in
measured cadence. On the ocean's wide expanse a hulk wallowed sluggishly,
the forgotten relict of a once brave and sightl
y ship, possibly the
Sphinx of some untold ocean tragedy, she lay black and forbidding in the
ordered procession of waves. Half a mile to the east of the derelict
hovered a ship's cutter, the turn of her crew's heads speaking
expectancy. As far again beyond, the United States cruiser
_Wolverine_ outlined her severe and trim silhouette against the
horizon. In all the spread of wave and sky no other thing was visible.
For this was one of the desert parts of the Pacific, three hundred miles
north of the steamship route from Yokohama to Honolulu, five hundred
miles from the nearest land, Gardner Island, and more than seven hundred
northwest of the Hawaiian group.

On the cruiser's quarter-deck the officers lined the starboard rail.
Their interest was focussed on the derelict.

"Looks like a heavy job," said Ives, one of the junior lieutenants.
"These floaters that lie with deck almost awash will stand more hammering
than a mud fort."

"Wish they'd let us put some six-inch shells into her," said Billy
Edwards, the ensign, a wistful expression on his big round cheerful face.
"I'd like to see what they would do."

"Nothing but waste a few hundred dollars of your Uncle Sam's money,"
observed Carter, the officer of the deck. "It takes placed charges inside
and out for that kind of work."

"Barnett's the man for her then," said Ives. "He's no economist when it
comes to getting results. There she goes!"

Without any particular haste, as it seemed to the watchers, the hulk was
shouldered out of the water, as by some hidden leviathan. Its outlines
melted into a black, outshowering mist, and from that mist leaped a
giant. Up, up, he towered, tossed whirling arms a hundred feet abranch,
shivered, and dissolved into a widespread cataract. The water below was
lashed into fury, in the midst of which a mighty death agony beat back
the troubled waves of the trade wind. Only then did the muffled double
boom of the explosion reach the ears of the spectators, presently to be
followed by a whispering, swift-skimming wavelet that swept i
rresistibly
across the bigger surges and lapped the ship's side, as for a message
that the work was done.

Here and there in the sea a glint of silver, a patch of purple, or dull
red, or a glistening apparition of black showed where the unintended
victims of the explosion, the gay-hued open-sea fish of the warm waters,
had succumbed to the force of the shock. Of the intended victim there was
no sign save a few fragments of wood bobbing in a swirl of water.

When Barnett, the ordnance officer in charge of the destruction, returned
to the ship, Carter complimented him.

"Good clean job, Barnett. She was a tough customer, too."

"What was she?" asked Ives.

"The _Caroline Lemp_, three-masted schooner. Anyone know about her?"

Ives turned to the ship's surgeon, Trendon, a grizzled and brief-spoken
veteran, who had at his finger's tips all the lore of all the waters
under the reign of the moon.

"What does the information bureau of the Seven Seas know about it?"

"Lost three years ago--spring of 1901--got into ice field off the tip of
the Aleutians. Some of the crew froze. Others got ashore. Part of
survivors accounted for. Others not. Say they've turned native. Don't
know myself."

"The Aleutians!" exclaimed Billy Edwards. "Great Cats! What a drift! How
many thousand miles would that be?"

"Not as far as many another derelict has wandered in her time, son," said
Barnett.

The talk washed back and forth across the hulks of classic sea mysteries,
new and old; of the _City of Boston_, which went down with all
hands, leaving for record only a melancholy scrawl on a bit of board to
meet the wondering eyes of a fisherman on the far Cornish coast; of the
_Great Queensland_, which set out with five hundred and sixty-nine
souls aboard, bound by a route unknown to a tragic end; of the
_Naronic_, with her silent and empty lifeboats alone left, drifting
about the open sea, to hint at the story of her fate; of the
_Huronian_, which, ten years later, on the same day and date, and
hailing from the same port as the _Naronic_, went o
ut into the void,
leaving no trace; of Newfoundland captains who sailed, roaring with
drink, under the arches of cathedral bergs, only to be prisoned, buried,
and embalmed in the one icy embrace; of craft assailed by the terrible
one-stroke lightning clouds of the Indian Ocean, found days after, stone
blind, with their crews madly hauling at useless sheets, while the
officers clawed the compass and shrieked; of burnings and piracies; of
pest ships and slave ships, and ships mad for want of water; of whelming
earthquake waves, and mysterious suctions, drawing irresistibly against
wind and steam power upon unknown currents; of stout hulks deserted in
panic although sound and seaworthy; and of others so swiftly dragged down
that there was no time for any to save himself; and of a hundred other
strange, stirring and pitiful ventures such as make up the inevitable
peril and incorrigible romance of the ocean. In a pause Billy Edwards
said musingly:

"Well, there was the _Laughing Lass_."

"How did you happen to hit on her?" asked Barnett quickly.

"Why not, sir? It naturally came into my head. She was last seen
somewhere about this part of the world, wasn't she?" After a moment's
hesitation he added: "From something I heard ashore I judge we've a
commission to keep a watch out for her as well as to destroy derelicts."

"What about the _Laughing Lass_?" asked McGuire, the paymaster, a
New Englander, who had been in the service but a short time.

"Good Lord! don't you remember the _Laughing Lass_ mystery and the
disappearance of Doctor Schermerhorn?"

"Karl Augustus Schermerhorn, the man whose experiments to identify
telepathy with the Marconi wireless waves made such a furore in the
papers?"

"Oh, that was only a by-product of his mind. He was an original
investigator in every line of physics and chemistry, besides most of the
natural sciences," said Barnett. "The government is particularly
interested in him because of his contributions to aerial photography."

"And he was lost with the _Laughing Lass_?"

"Nobody knows,
" said Edwards. "He left San Francisco two years ago on a
hundred-foot schooner, with an assistant, a big brass-bound chest, and a
ragamuffin crew. A newspaper man named Slade, who dropped out of the
world about the same time, is supposed to have gone along, too. Their
schooner was last sighted about 450 miles northeast of Oahu, in good
shape, and bound westward. That's all the record of her that there is."

"Was that Ralph Slade?" asked Barnett.

"Yes. He was a free-lance writer and artist."

"I knew him well," said Barnett. "He was in our mess in the Philippine
campaign, on the _North Dakota_. War correspondent then. It's
strange that I never identified him before with the Slade of the
_Laughing Lass_."

"What was the object of the voyage?" asked Ives.

"They were supposed to be after buried treasure," said Barnett.

"I've always thought it more likely that Doctor Schermerhorn was on a
scientific expedition," said Edwards. "I knew the old boy, and he wasn't
the sort to care a hoot in Sheol for treasure, buried or unburied."

"Every time a ship sets out from San Francisco without publishing to all
the world just what her business is, all the world thinks it's one of
those wild-goose hunts," observed Ives.

"Yes," agreed Barnett. "Flora and fauna of some unknown island would be
much more in the Schermerhorn line of traffic. Not unlikely that some of
the festive natives collected the unfortunate professor."

Various theories were advanced, withdrawn, refuted, defended, and the
discussion carried them through the swift twilight into the darkness
which had been hastened by a high-spreading canopy of storm-clouds.
Abruptly from the crow's-nest came startling news for those desolate
seas: "Light--ho! Two points on the port bow."

The lookout had given extra voice to it. It was plainly heard throughout
the ship.

The group of officers stared in the direction indicated, but could see
nothing. Presently Ives and Edwards, who were the keenest-sighted, made
out a faint, suffused radiance. At the same time came a second hai
l from
the crow's-nest.

"On deck, sir."

"Hello," responded Carter, the officer of the deck.

"There's a light here I can't make anything out of, sir."

"What's it like?"

"Sort of a queer general glow."

"General glow, indeed!" muttered Forsythe, among the group aft. "That
fellow's got an imagination."

"Can't you describe it better than that?" called Carter.

"Don't make it out at all, sir. 'Tain't any regular and proper light.
Looks like a lamp in a fog."

Among themselves the officers discussed it interestedly, as it grew
plainer.

"Not unlike the electric glow above a city, seen from a distance," said
Barnett, as it grew plainer.

"Yes: but the nearest electric-lighted city is some eight hundred miles
away," objected Ives.

"Mirage, maybe," suggested Edwards.

"Pretty hard-working mirage, to cover that distance" said Ives. "Though
I've seen 'em----"

"Great heavens! Look at that!" shouted Edwards.

A great shaft of pale brilliance shot up toward the zenith. Under it
whirled a maelstrom of varied radiance, pale with distance, but
marvellously beautiful. Forsythe passed them with a troubled face, on his
way below to report, as his relief went up.

"The quartermaster reports the compass behaving queerly," he said.

Three minutes later the captain was on the bridge. The great ship had
swung, and they were speeding direct for the phenomenon. But within a few
minutes the light had died out.

"Another sea mystery to add to our list," said Billy Edwards. "Did anyone
ever see a show like that before? What do you think, Doc?"

"Humph!" grunted the veteran. "New to me. Volcanic, maybe."

II

THE _LAUGHING LASS_

The falling of dusk on June the 3d found tired eyes aboard the
_Wolverine_. Every officer in her complement had kept a private and
personal lookout all day for some explanation of the previous night's
phenomenon. All that rewarded them were a sky filmed with lofty clouds,
and the holiday parade of the epauletted waves.

Nor did evening bring a repetition of that strange glow. Midnight found
the late stayers st
ill deep in the discussion.

"One thing is certain," said Ives. "It wasn't volcanic."

"Why so?" asked the paymaster.

"Because volcanoes are mostly stationary, and we headed due for that
light."

"Yes; but did we keep headed?" said Barnett, who was navigating officer
as well as ordnance officer, in a queer voice.

"What do you mean, sir?" asked Edwards eagerly.

"After the light disappeared the compass kept on varying. The stars were
hidden. There is no telling just where we were headed for some time."

"Then we might be fifty miles from the spot we aimed at."

"Hardly that," said the navigator. "We could guide her to some extent by
the direction of wind and waves. If it was volcanic we ought certainly to
have sighted it by now."

"Always some electricity in volcanic eruptions," said Trendon. "Makes
compass cut didoes. Seen it before."

"Where?" queried Carter.

"Off Martinique. Pelee eruption. Needle chased its tail like a kitten."

"Are there many volcanoes hereabouts?" somebody asked.

"We're in 162 west, 31 north, about," said Barnett. "No telling whether
there are or not. There weren't at last accounts, but that's no evidence
that there aren't some since. They come up in the night, these volcanic
islands."

"Just cast an eye on the charts," said Billy Edwards. "Full of E. D.'s
and P. D.'s all over the shop. Every one of 'em volcanic."

"E. D.'s and P. D.'s?" queried the paymaster.

"Existence doubtful, and position doubtful," explained the ensign. "Every
time the skipper of one of these wandering trade ships gets a speck in
his eye, he reports an island. If he really does bump into a rock he cuts
in an arithmetic book for his latitude and longitude and lets it go at
that. That's how the chart makers make a living, getting out new editions
every few months."

"But it's a fact that these seas are constantly changing," said Barnett.
"They're so little travelled that no one happens to be around to see an
island born. I don't suppose there's a part on the earth's surface more
liable to seismic disturbances than 
this region."

"Seismic!" cried Billy Edwards, "I should say it was seismic! Why, when a
native of one of these island groups sets his heart on a particular loaf
of bread up his bread-fruit tree, he doesn't bother to climb after it.
Just waits for some earthquake to happen along and shake it down to him."

"Good boy, Billy," said Dr. Trendon, approvingly. "Do another."

"It's a fact," said the ensign, heatedly. "Why, a couple of years back
there was a trader here stocked up with a lot of belly-mixture in
bottles. Thought he was going to make his pile because there'd been a
colic epidemic in the islands the season before. Bottles were labelled
'Do not shake.' That settled his business. Might as well have marked 'em
'Keep frozen' in this part of the world. Fellow went broke."

"In any case," said Barnett, "such a glow as that we sighted last night
I've never seen from any volcano."

"Nor I," said Trendon. "Don't prove it mightn't have been."

"I'll just bet the best dinner in San Francisco that it isn't," said
Edwards.

"You're on," said Carter.

"Let me in," suggested Ives.

"And I'll take one of it," said McGuire.

"Come one, come all," said Edwards cheerily. "I'll live high on the
collective bad judgment of this outfit."

"To-night isn't likely to settle it, anyhow," said Ives. "I move we turn
in."

Expectant minds do not lend themselves to sound slumber. All night the
officers of the _Wolverine_ slept on the verge of waking, but it was
not until dawn that the cry of "Sail-ho!" sent them all hurrying to their
clothes. Ordinarily officers of the U.S. Navy do not scuttle on deck like
a crowd of curious schoolgirls, but all hands had been keyed to a high
pitch over the elusive light, and the bet with Edwards now served as an
excuse for the betrayal of unusual eagerness. Hence the quarter-deck was
soon alive with men who were wont to be deep in dreams at that hour.

They found Carter, whose watch on deck it was, reprimanding the lookout.

"No, sir," the man was insisting, "she didn't show no light, sir. I'd 'a'
sigh
ted her an hour ago, sir, if she had."

"We shall see," said Carter grimly. "Who's your relief?"

"Sennett."

"Let him take your place. Go aloft, Sennett."

As the lookout, crestfallen and surly, went below, Barnett said in
subdued tones:

"Upon my word, I shouldn't be surprised if the man were right. Certainly
there's something queer about that hooker. Look how she handles herself."

The vessel was some three miles to windward. She was a schooner of the
common two-masted Pacific type, but she was comporting herself in a
manner uncommon on the Pacific, or any other ocean. Even as Barnett
spoke, she heeled well over, and came rushing up into the wind, where she
stood with all sails shaking. Slowly she paid off again, bearing away
from them. Now she gathered full headway, yet edged little by little to
windward again.

"Mighty queer tactics," muttered Edwards. "I think she's steering
herself."

"Good thing she carries a weather helm," commented Ives, who was an
expert on sailing rigs. "Most of that type do. Otherwise she'd have jibed
her masts out, running loose that way."

Captain Parkinson appeared on deck and turned his glasses for a full
minute on the strange schooner.

"Aloft there," he hailed the crow's-nest. "Do you make out anyone
aboard?"

"No, sir," came the answer.

"Mr. Carter, have the chief quartermaster report on deck with the signal
flags."

"Yes, sir."

"Aren't we going to run up to her?" asked McGuire, turning in surprise to
Edwards.

"And take the risk of getting a hole punched in our pretty paint, with
her running amuck that way? Not much!"

Up came the signal quartermaster to get his orders, and there ensued a
one-sided conversation in the pregnant language of the sea.

"What ship is that?"

No answer.

"Are you in trouble?" asked the cruiser, and waited. The schooner showed
a bare and silent main-peak.

"Heave to." Now Uncle Sam was giving orders.

But the other paid no heed.

"We'll make that a little more emphatic," said Captain Parkinson. A
moment later there was the sharp crash of a gun and
 a shot went across
the bows of the sailing vessel. Hastened by a flaw of wind that veered
from the normal direction of the breeze the stranger made sharply to
windward, as if to obey.

"Ah, there she comes," ran the comment along the cruiser's quarter-deck.

But the schooner, after standing for a moment, all flapping, answered
another flaw, and went wide about on the opposite tack.

"Derelict," remarked Captain Parkinson. "She seems to be in good shape,
too, Dr. Trendon!"

"Yes, sir." The surgeon went to the captain, and the others could hear
his deep, abrupt utterance in reply to some question too low for their
ears.

"Might be, sir. Beri-beri, maybe. More likely smallpox if anything of
that kind. But _some_ of 'em would be on deck."

"Whew! A plague ship!" said Billy Edwards. "Just my luck to be ordered to
board her." He shivered slightly.

"Scared, Billy?" said Ives. Edwards had a record for daring which made
this joke obvious enough to be safe.

"I wouldn't want to have my peculiar style of beauty spoiled by smallpox
marks," said the ensign, with a smile on his homely, winning face. "And
I've a hunch that that ship is not a lucky find for this ship."

"Then I've a hunch that your hunch is a wrong one," said Ives. "How long
would you guess that craft to be?"

[Illustration: A schooner comporting herself in a manner uncommon on the
Pacific]

They were now within a mile of the schooner. Edwards scrutinised her
calculatingly.

"Eighty to ninety feet."

"Say 150 tons. And she's a two-masted schooner, isn't she?" continued
Ives, insinuatingly.

"She certainly is."

"Well, I've a hunch that that ship is a lucky find for any ship, but
particularly for this ship."

"Great Caesar!" cried the ensign excitedly. "Do you think it's
_her_?"

A buzz of electric interest went around the group. Every glass was
raised; every eye strained toward her stern to read the name as she
veered into the wind again. About she came. A sharp sigh of excited
disappointment exhaled from the spectators. The name had been painted
out.

"No go,
" breathed Edwards. "But I'll bet another dinner----"

"Mr. Edwards," called the captain. "You will take the second cutter,
board that schooner, and make a full investigation."

"Yes, sir."

"Take your time. Don't come alongside until she is in the wind. Leave
enough men aboard to handle her."

"Yes, sir."

The cruiser steamed to within half a mile of the aimless traveller, and
the small boat put out. Not one of his fellows but envied the young
ensign as he left the ship, steered by Timmins, a veteran bo's'n's mate,
wise in all the ins and outs of sea ways. They saw him board, neatly
running the small boat under the schooner's counter; they saw the
foresheet eased off and the ship run up into the wind; then the foresail
dropped and the wheel lashed so that she would stand so. They awaited the
reappearance of Edwards and the bo's'n's mate when they had vanished
below decks, and with an intensity of eagerness they followed the return
of the small boat.

Billy Edwards's face as he came on deck was a study. It was alight with
excitement; yet between the eyes two deep wrinkles of puzzlement
quivered. Such a face the mathematician bends above his paper when some
obstructive factor arises between him and his solution.

"Well, sir?" There was a hint of effort at restraint in the captain's
voice.

"She's the _Laughing Lass_, sir. Everything ship-shape, but not a
soul aboard."

"Come below, Mr. Edwards," said the captain. And they went, leaving
behind them a boiling cauldron of theory and conjecture.

III

THE DEATH SHIP

Billy Edwards came on deck with a line of irritation right-angling the
furrows between his eyes.

"Go ahead," the quarter-deck bade him, seeing him aflush with
information.

"The captain won't believe me," blurted out Edwards.

"Is it as bad as that?" asked Barnett, smiling.

"It certainly is," replied the younger man seriously. "I don't know that
I blame him. I'd hardly believe it myself if I hadn't----"

"Oh, go on. Out with it. Give us the facts. Never mind your credibility."

"The facts are that there
 lies the _Laughing Lass_, a little
weather-worn, but sound as a dollar, and not a living being aboard of
her. Her boats are all there. Everything's in good condition, though none
too orderly. Pitcher half full of fresh water in the rack. Sails all O.
K. Ashes of the galley fire still warm. I tell you, gentlemen, that ship
hasn't been deserted more than a couple of days at the outside."

"Are you sure all the boats are there?" asked Ives.

"Dory, dingy, and two surf boats. Isn't that enough?"

"Plenty."

"Been over her, inside and out. No sign of collision. No leak. No
anything, except that the starboard side is blistered a bit. No evidence
of fire anywhere else. I tell you," said Billy Edwards pathetically,
"it's given me a headache."

"Perhaps it's one of those cases of panic that Forsythe spoke of the
other night," said Ives. "The crew got frightened at something and ran
away, with the devil after them."

"But crews don't just step out and run around the corner and hide, when
they're scared," objected Barnett.

"That's true, too," assented Ives. "Well, perhaps that volcanic eruption
jarred them so that they jumped for it."

"Pretty wild theory, that," said Edwards.

"No wilder than the facts, as you give them," was the retort.

"That's so," admitted the ensign gloomily.

"But how about pestilence?" suggested Barnett.

"Maybe they died fast and the last survivor, after the bodies of the rest
were overboard, got delirious and jumped after them."

"Not if the galley fire was hot," said Dr. Trendon, briefly. "No;
pestilence doesn't work that way."

"Did you look at the wheel, Billy?" asked Ives.

"Did I! There's another thing. Wheel's all right, but compass is no good
at all. It's regularly bewitched."

"What about the log, then?"

"Couldn't find it anywhere. Hunted high, low, jack, and the game;
everywhere except in the big, brass-bound chest I found in the captain's
cabin. Couldn't break into that."

"Dr. Schermerhorn's chest!" exclaimed Barnett. "Then he was aboard."

"Well, he isn't aboard now," said the ensig
n grimly. "Not in the flesh.
And that's all," he added suddenly.

"No; it isn't all," said Barnett gently. "There's something else.
Captain's orders?"

"Oh, no. Captain Parkinson doesn't take enough stock in my report to tell
me to withhold anything," said Edwards, with a trace of bitterness in his
voice. "It's nothing that I believe myself, anyhow."

"Give _us_ a chance to believe it," said Ives.

"Well," said the ensign hesitantly, "there's a sort of atmosphere about
that schooner that's almost uncanny."

"Oh, you had the shudders before you were ordered to board," bantered
Ives.

"I know it. I'd have thought it was one of those fool presentiments if I
were the only one to feel it. But the men were affected, too. They kept
together like frightened sheep. And I heard one say to another: 'Hey,
Boney, d'you feel like someone was a-buzzin' your nerves like a
fiddle-string?' Now," demanded Edwards plaintively, "what right has a
jackie to have nerves?"

"That's strange enough about the compass," said Barnett slowly. "Ours is
all right again. The schooner must have been so near the electric
disturbance that her instruments were permanently deranged."

"That would lend weight to the volcanic theory," said Carter.

"So the captain didn't take kindly to your go-look-see?" questioned Ives
of Edwards.

"As good as told me I'd missed the point of the thing," said the ensign,
flushing. "Perhaps he can make more of it himself. At any rate, he's
going to try. Here he is now."

"Dr. Trendon," said the captain, appearing. "You will please to go with
me to the schooner."

"Yes, sir," said the surgeon, rising from his chair with such alacrity as
to draw from Ives the sardonic comment:

"Why, I actually believe old Trendon is excited."

For two hours after the departure of the captain and Trendon there were
dull times on the quarter-deck of the _Wolverine_. Then the surgeon
came back to them.

"Billy was right," he said.

"But he didn't tell us anything," cried Ives. "He didn't clear up the
mystery."

"That's what," said Trendon. "
One thing Billy said," he added, waxing
unusually prolix for him, "was truer than maybe he knew."

"Thanks," murmured the ensign. "What was that?"

"You said 'Not a living being aboard.' Exact words, hey?"

"Well, what of it?" exclaimed the ensign excitedly. "You don't mean you
found dead----?"

"Keep your temperature down, my boy. No. You were exactly right. Not a
living being aboard."

"Thanks for nothing," retorted the ensign.

"Neither human nor other," pursued Trendon.

"What!"

"Food scattered around the galley. Crumbs on the mess table. Ever see a
wooden ship without cockroaches?"

"Never particularly investigated the matter."

"Don't believe such a thing exists," said Ives.

"Not a cockroach on the _Laughing Lass_. Ever know of an old hooker
that wasn't overrun with rats?"

"No; nor anyone else. Not above water."

"Found a dozen dead rats. No sound or sign of a live one on the
_Laughing Lass_. No rats, no mice. No bugs. Gentlemen, the
_Laughing Lass_ is a charnel ship."

"No wonder Billy's tender nerves went wrong." said Ives, with
irrepressible flippancy. "She's probably haunted by cockroach wraiths."

"He'll have a chance to see," said Trendon. "Captain's going to put him
in charge."

"By way of apology, then," said Barnett. "That's pretty square."

"Captain Parkinson wishes to see you in his cabin, Mr. Edwards," said an
orderly, coming in.

"A pleasant voyage, Captain Billy," said Ives. "Sing out if the goblins
git yer."

Fifteen minutes later Ensign Edwards, with a quartermaster, Timmins, the
bo's'n's mate, and a crew, was heading a straight course toward his first
command, with instructions to "keep company and watch for signals"; and
intention to break into the brass-bound chest and ferret out what clue
lay there, if it took dynamite. As he boarded, Barnett and Trendon, with
both of whom the lad was a favourite, came to a sinister conclusion.

"It's poison, I suppose," said the first officer.

"And a mighty subtle sort," agreed Trendon. "Don't like the looks of it."
He shook a solemn head. "Don't li
ke it for a damn."

IV

THE SECOND PRIZE CREW

In semi-tropic Pacific weather the unexpected so seldom happens as to be
a negligible quantity. The _Wolverine_ met with it on June 5th. From
some unaccountable source in that realm of the heaven-scouring trades
came a heavy mist. Possibly volcanic action, deranging by its electric
and gaseous outpourings the normal course of the winds, had given birth
to it. Be that as it may, it swept down upon the cruiser, thickening as
it approached, until presently it had spread a curtain between the
warship and its charge. The wind died. Until after fall of night the
_Wolverine_ moved slowly, bellowing for the schooner, but got no
reply. Once they thought they heard a distant shout of response, but
there was no repetition.

"Probably doesn't carry any fog horn," said Carter bitterly, voicing a
general uneasiness.

"No log; compass crazy; without fog signal; I don't like that craft.
Barnett ought to have been ordered to blow the damned thing up, as a
peril to the high seas."

"We'll pick her up in the morning, surely," said Forsythe. "This can't
last for ever."

Nor did it last long. An hour before midnight a pounding shower fell,
lashing the sea into phosphorescent whiteness. It ceased, and with the
growl of a leaping animal a squall furiously beset the ship. Soon the
great steel body was plunging and heaving in the billows. It was a gloomy
company about the wardroom table. Upon each and all hung an oppression of
spirit. Captain Parkinson came from his cabin and went on deck.
Constitutionally he was a nervous and pessimistic man with a fixed belief
in the conspiracy of events, banded for the undoing of him and his. Blind
or dubious conditions racked his soul, but real danger found him not only
prepared, but even eager. Now his face was a picture of foreboding.

"Parky looks as if Davy Jones was pulling on his string," observed the
flippant Ives to his neighbour.

"Worrying about the schooner. Hope Billy Edwards saw or heard or felt
that squall coming," replied Forsythe, giving 
expression to the anxiety
that all felt.

"He's a good sailor man," said Ives, "and that's a staunch little
schooner, by the way she handled herself."

"Oh, it will be all right," said Carter confidently. "The wind's
moderating now."

"But there's no telling how far out of the course this may have blown
him."

Barnett came down, dripping.

"Anything new?" asked Dr. Trendon.

The navigating officer shook his head.

"Nothing. But the captain's in a state of mind," he said.

"What's wrong with him?"

"The schooner. Seems possessed with the notion that there's something
wrong with her."

"Aren't you feeling a little that way yourself?" said Forsythe. "I am.
I'll take a look around before I turn in."

He left behind him a silent crowd. His return was prompt and swift.

"Come on deck," he said.

Every man leaped as to an order. There was that in Forsythe's voice which
stung. The weather had cleared somewhat, though scudding wrack still blew
across them to the westward. The ship rolled heavily. Of the sea naught
was visible except the arching waves, but in the sky they beheld again,
with a sickening sense of disaster, that pale and lovely glow which had
so bewildered them two nights before.

"The aurora!" cried McGuire, the paymaster.

"Oh, certainly," replied Ives, with sarcasm. "Dead in the west. Common
spot for the aurora. Particularly on the edge of the South Seas, where
they are thick!"

"Then what is it?"

Nobody had an answer. Carter hastened forward and returned to report.

"It's electrical anyway," said Carter. "The compass is queer again."

"Edwards ought to be close to the solution of it," ventured Ives. "This
gale should have blown him just about to the centre of interest."

"If only he isn't involved in it," said Carter anxiously.

"What could there be to involve him?" asked McGuire.

"I don't know," said Carter slowly. "Somehow I feel as if the desertion
of the schooner was in some formidable manner connected with that light."

For perhaps fifteen minutes the glow continued. It seemed to be nearer at
hand 
than on the former sighting; but it took no comprehensible form.
Then it died away and all was blackness again. But the officers of the
_Wolverine_ had long been in troubled slumber before the sensitive
compass regained its exact balance, and with the shifting wind to mislead
her, the cruiser had wandered, by morning, no man might know how far from
her course.

All day long of June 6th the _Wolverine_, baffled by patches of mist
and moving rain-squalls, patrolled the empty seas without sighting the
lost schooner. The evening brought an envelope of fog again, and
presently a light breeze came up from the north. An hour of it had failed
to disperse the mist, when there was borne down to the warship a flapping
sound as of great wings. The flapping grew louder--waned--ceased--and
from the lookout came a hail.

"Ship's lights three points on the starboard quarter."

"What do you make it out to be?" came the query from below.

"Green light's all I can see, sir." There was a pause.

"There's her port light, now. Looks to be turning and bearing down on us,
sir. Coming dead for us"--the man's voice rose--"close aboard; less'n two
ship's lengths away!"

As for a prearranged scene, the fog-curtain parted. There loomed silently
and swiftly the _Laughing Lass_. Down she bore upon the greater
vessel until it seemed as if she must ram; but all the time she was
veering to windward, and now she ran into the wind with a castanet rattle
of sails. So close aboard was she that the eager eyes of Uncle Sam's men
peered down upon her empty decks--for she was void of life.

Behind the cruiser's blanketing she paid off very slowly, but presently
caught the breeze full and again whitened the water at her prow.
Forgetting regulations, Ives hailed loudly:

"Ahoy, _Laughing Lass_! Ahoy, Billy Edwards!"

No sound, no animate motion came from aboard that apparition, as she fell
astern. A shudder of horror ran across the _Wolverine_'s
quarter-deck. A wraith ship, peopled with skeletons, would have been less
dreadful to their sight than the brisk
 and active desolation of the
heeling schooner.

"Been deserted since early last night," said Trendon hoarsely.

"How can you tell that?" asked Barnett.

"Both sails reefed down. Ready for that squall. Been no weather since to
call for reefs. Must have quit her during the squall."

"Then they jumped," cried Carter, "for I saw her boats. It isn't
believable."

"Neither was the other," said Trendon grimly.

A hurried succession of orders stopped further discussion for the time.
Ives was sent aboard the schooner to lower sail and report. He came back
with a staggering dearth of information. The boats were all there; the
ship was intact--as intact as when Billy Edwards had taken charge--but
the cheery, lovable ensign and his men had vanished without trace or
clue. As to the how or the wherefore they might rack their brains without
guessing. There was the beginning of a log in the ensign's handwriting,
which Ives had found with high excitement and read with bitter
disappointment.

"Had squall from northeast," it ran. "Double reefed her and she took it
nicely. Seems a seaworthy, quick ship. Further search for log. No result.
Have ordered one of crew who is a bit of a mechanic to work at the
brass-bound chest till he gets it open. He reports marks on the lock as
if somebody had been trying to pick it before him."

There was no further entry.

"Dr. Trendon is right," said Barnett. "Whatever happened--and God only
knows what it could have been--it happened just after the squall."

"Just about the time of the strange glow," cried Ives.

It was decided that two men and a petty officer should be sent aboard the
_Laughing Lass_ to make her fast with a cable, and remain on board
over night. But when the order was given the men hung back. One of them
protested brokenly that he was sick. Trendon, after examination, reported
to the captain.

"Case of blue funk, sir. Might as well be sick. Good for nothing. Others
aren't much better."

"Who was to be in charge?"

"Congdon," replied the doctor, naming one of the petty officers.

"H
e's my coxswain," said Captain Parkinson. "A first-class man. I can
hardly believe that he is afraid. We'll see."

[Illustration: A man who was a bit of a mechanic was set to work to open
the chest]

Congdon was sent for.

"You're ordered aboard the schooner for the night, Congdon," said the
captain.

"Yes, sir."

"Is there any reason why you do not wish to go?"

The man hesitated, looking miserable. Finally he blurted out, not without
a certain dignity:

"I obey orders, sir."

"Speak out, my man," urged the captain kindly.

"Well, sir: it's Mr. Edwards, then. You couldn't scare him off a ship,
sir, unless it was something--something----"

He stopped, failing of the word.

"You know what Mr. Edwards was, sir, for pluck," he concluded.

"_Was_!" cried the captain sharply. "What do you mean?

"The schooner got him, sir. You don't make no doubt of that, do you,
sir?" The man spoke in a hushed voice, with a shrinking glance back of
him.

"Will you go aboard under Mr. Ives?"

"Anywhere my officer goes I'll go, and gladly, sir."

Ives was sent aboard in charge. For that night, in a light breeze, the
two ships lay close together, the schooner riding jauntily astern. But
not until morning illumined the world of waters did the
_Wolverine_'s people feel confident that the _Laughing Lass_
would not vanish away from their ken like a shape of the mist.

V

THE DISAPPEARANCE

When Barnett come on deck very early in the morning of June 7th, he found
Dr. Trendon already up and staring moodily out at the _Laughing
Lass_. As the night was calm the tow had made fair time toward their
port in the Hawaiian group. The surgeon was muttering something which
seemed to Barnett to be in a foreign tongue.

"Thought out any clue, doctor?" asked the first officer.

"_Petit Chel_--Pshaw! _Jolie Celimene!_ No," muttered Trendon.
"_Marie--Marie_--I've got it! The _Marie Celeste_."

"Got what? What about her?"

"Parallel case," said Trendon. "Sailed from New York back in the
seventies. Seven weeks out was found derelict. Everything in perfect
ord
er. Captain's wife's hem on the machine. Boats all accounted for. No
sign of struggle. Log written to within forty-eight hours."

"What became of the crew?"

"Wish I could tell you. Might help to unravel our tangle." He shook his
head in sudden, unwonted passion.

"Evidently there's something criminal in her record," said Barnett,
frowning at the fusty schooner astern. "Otherwise the name wouldn't be
painted out."

"Painted out long ago. See how rusty it is. Schermerhorn's work maybe,"
replied Trendon. "Secret expedition, remember."

"In the name of wonders, why should he do it?"

"Secret expedition, wasn't it?"

"Um-ah; that's true," said the other thoughtfully. "It's quite possible."

"Captain wishes to see both of you gentlemen in the ward room, if you
please," came a message.

Below they found all the officers gathered. Captain Parkinson was pacing
up and down in ill-controlled agitation.

"Gentlemen," he said, "we are facing a problem which, so far as I know,
is without parallel. It is my intention to bring the schooner which we
have in tow to port at Honolulu. In the present unsettled weather we
cannot continue to tow her. I wish two officers to take charge. Under the
circumstances I shall issue no orders. The duty must be voluntary."

Instantly every man, from the veteran Trendon to the youthful paymaster,
volunteered.

"That is what I expected," said Captain Parkinson quietly. "But I have
still a word to say. I make no doubt in my own mind that the schooner has
twice been beset by the gravest of perils. Nothing less would have driven
Mr. Edwards from his post. All of us who know him will appreciate that.
Nor can I free myself from the darkest forebodings as to his fate and
that of his companions. But as to the nature of the peril I am unable to
make any conjecture worthy of consideration. Has anyone a theory to
offer?"

There was a dead silence.

"Mr. Barnett? Dr. Trendon? Mr. Ives?"

"Is there not possibly some connection between the unexplained light
which we have twice seen, and the double desertion of
 the ship?"
suggested the first officer, after a pause.

"I have asked myself that over and over. Whatever the source of the light
and however near to it the schooner may have been, she is evidently
unharmed."

"Yes, sir," said Barnett. "That seems to vitiate that explanation."

"I thank you, gentlemen, for the promptitude of your offers," continued
the captain. "In this respect you make my duty the more difficult. I
shall accept Mr. Ives because of his familiarity with sailing craft and
with these seas." His eyes ranged the group.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Parkinson," eagerly put in the paymaster,
"but I've handled a schooner yacht for several years and I'd appreciate
the chance of----"

"Very well, Mr. McGuire, you shall be the second in command."

"Thank you, sir."

"You gentlemen will pick a volunteer crew and go aboard at once. Spare no
effort to find records of the schooner's cruise. Keep in company and
watch for signals. Report at once any discovery or unusual incident,
however slight."

Not so easily was a crew obtained. Having in mind the excusable
superstition of the men, Captain Parkinson was unwilling to compel any of
them to the duty. Awed by the mystery of their mates' disappearance, the
sailors hung back. Finally by temptation of extra prize money, a
complement was made up.

At ten o'clock of a puffy, mist-laden morning a new and strong crew of
nine men boarded the _Laughing Lass_. There were no farewells among
the officers. Forebodings weighed too heavy for such open expression.

All the fates of weather seemed to combine to part the schooner from her
convoy. As before, the fog fell, only to be succeeded by squally
rain-showers that cut out the vista into a checkerboard pattern of
visible sea and impenetrable greyness. Before evening the _Laughing
Lass_, making slow way through the mists, had become separated by a
league of waves from the cruiser. One glimpse of her between mist areas
the _Wolverines_ caught at sunset. Then wind and rain descended in
furious volume from the southeast. The cruis
er immediately headed about,
following the probable course of her charge, which would be beaten far
down to leeward. It was a gloomy mess on the warship. In his cabin,
Captain Parkinson was frankly sea-sick: a condition which nothing but the
extreme of nervous depression ever induced in him.

For several hours the rain fell and the gale howled. Then the sky swiftly
cleared, and with the clearing there rose a great cry of amaze from stem
to stern of the _Wolverine_. For far toward the western horizon
appeared such a prodigy as the eye of no man aboard that ship had ever
beheld. From a belt of marvellous, glowing gold, rich and splendid
streamers of light spiralled up into the blackness of the heavens.

In all the colours of the spectrum they rose and fell; blazing orange,
silken, wonderful, translucent blues, and shimmering reds. Below, a broad
band of paler hue, like sheet lightning fixed to rigidity, wavered and
rippled. All the auroras of the northland blended in one could but have
paled away before the splendour of that terrific celestial apparition.

On board the cruiser all hands stood petrified, bound in a stricture of
speechless wonder. After the first cry, silence lay leaden over the ship.
It was broken by a scream of terror from forward. The quartermaster who
had been at the wheel came clambering down the ladder and ran along the
deck, his fingers splayed and stiffened before him in the intensity of
his panic.

"The needle! The compass!" he shrieked.

Barnett ran to the wheel house with Trendon at his heels. The others
followed. The needle was swaying like a cobra's head. And as a cobra's
head spits venom, it spat forth a thin, steel-blue stream of lucent fire.
Then so swiftly it whirled that the sparks scattered from it in a tiny
shower. It stopped, quivered, and curved itself upward until it rattled
like a fairy drum upon the glass shield. Barnett looked at Trendon.

"Volcanic?" he said.

"'Mine eyes have seen the coming of the glory of the Lord,'" muttered the
surgeon in his deep bass, as he looked fo
rth upon the streaming, radiant
heavens. "It's like nothing else."

In the west the splendour and the terror shot to the zenith. Barnett
whirled the wheel. The ship responded perfectly.

"I though she might be bewitched, too," he murmured.

"You may heal her for the light, Mr. Barnett," said Captain Parkinson
calmly. He had come from his cabin, all his nervous depression gone in
the face of an imminent and visible danger.

Slowly the great mass of steel swung to the unknown. For an hour the
unknown guided her. Then fell blackness, sudden, complete. After that
radiance the dazzled eye could make out no stars, but the look-out's
keen vision discerned something else.

"Ship afire," he shouted hoarsely.

"Where away?"

"Two points to leeward, near where the light was, sir."

They turned their eyes to the direction indicated, and beheld a majestic
rolling volume of purple light. Suddenly a fiercer red shot it through.

"That's no ship afire," said Trendon. "Volcano in eruption."

"And the other?" asked the captain.

"No volcano, sir."

"Poor Billy Edwards wins his bet," said Forsythe, in a low voice.

"God grant he's on earth to collect it," replied Barnett solemnly.

No one turned in that night. When the sun of June 8th rose, it showed an
ocean bare of prospect except that on the far horizon where the chart
showed no land there rose a smudge of dirty rolling smoke. Of the
schooner there was neither sign nor trace.

VI

THE CASTAWAYS

"This ship," growled Carter, the second officer, to Dr. Trendon, as they
stood watching the growing smoke-column, "is a worse hot-bed of rumours
than a down-east village. That's the third sea-gull we've had officially
reported since breakfast."

As he said, three distinct times the _Wolverine_ had thrilled to an
imminent discovery, which, upon nearer investigation, had dwindled to
nothing more than a floating fowl. Upon the heels of Carter's complaint
came another hail.

"Boat ahoy. Three points on the starboard bow."

"If that's another gull," muttered Carter, "I'll have something to sa
y to
you, my festive lookout."

The news ran electrically through the cruiser, and all eyes were strained
for a glimpse of the boat. The ship swung away to starboard.

"Let me know as soon as you can make her out," ordered Carter.

"Aye, aye, sir."

"There's certainly something there," said Forsythe, presently. "I can
make out a speck rising on the waves."

"Bit o' wreckage from Barnett's derelict," muttered Trendon, scowling
through his glasses.

"Rides too high for a spar or anything of that sort," said the junior
lieutenant.

"She's a small boat," came in the clear tones of the lookout, "driftin'
down."

"Anyone in her?" asked Carter.

"Can't make out yet, sir. No one's in charge though, sir."

Captain Parkinson appeared and Carter pointed out the speck to him.

"Yes. Give her full speed," said the captain, replying to a question from
the officer of the deck.

Forward leapt the swift cruiser, all too slow for the anxious hearts of
those aboard. For there was not one of the _Wolverines_ who did not
expect from this aimless traveller of desert seas at the least a leading
clue to the riddle that oppressed them.

"Aloft there!"

"Aye, aye, sir."

"Can you make out her build?"

"Rides high, like a dory, sir."

"Wasn't there a dory on the _Laughing Lass_?" cried Forsythe.

"On her stern davits," answered Trendon.

"It is hardly probable that unattached small boats should be drifting
about these seas," said Captain Parkinson, thoughtfully. "If she's a
dory, she's the _Laughing Lass_'s boat."

"That's what she is," said Barnett. "You can see her build plain enough
now."

"Mr. Barnett, will you go aloft and keep me posted?" said the captain.

The executive officer climbed to join the lookout. As he ascended, those
below saw the little craft rise high and slow on a broad swell.

"Same dory," said Trendon. "I'd swear to her in Constantinople."

"What else could she be?" muttered Forsythe.

"Somethin' that looks like a man in the bottom of her," sang out the
crow's-nest. "Two of 'em, I think."

For five minutes there was 
stillness aboard, broken only by an occasional
low-voiced conjecture. Then from aloft:

"Two men rolling in the bottom."

"Are they alive?"

"No, sir; not that I can see."

The wind, which had been extremely variable since dawn, now whipped
around a couple of points, swinging the boat's stern to them. Barnet,
putting aside his glass for a moment, called down:

"That's the one, sir. I can make out the name."

"Good," said the captain quietly. "We should have news, at least."

"Ives or McGuire," suggested Forsythe, in low tones.

"Or Billy Edwards," amended Carter.

"Not Edwards," said Trendon.

"How do you know?" demanded Forsythe.

"Dory was aboard when we found her the second time, after Edwards had
left."

"Can you make out which of the men are in her?" hailed the captain.

"Don't think it's any of our people," came the astonishing reply from
Barnett.

"Are you sure?"

"I can see only one man's face, sir. It isn't Ives or McGuire. He's a
stranger to me."

"It must be one of the crew, then."

"No, sir, beg your parding," called the lookout. "Nothin' like that in
our crew, sir."

The boat came down upon them swiftly. Soon the quarter-deck was looking
into her. She was of a type common enough on the high seas, except that a
step for a mast showed that she had presumably been used for skimming
about open shores. Of her passengers, one lay forward, prone and quiet. A
length of sail cloth spread over him made it impossible to see his garb.
At his breast an ugly protuberance, outlined vaguely, hinted a deformity.

The other sprawled aft, and at a nearer sight of him some of the men
broke out into nervous titters. There was some excuse, for surely such a
scarecrow had never before been the sport of wind and wave. A thing of
shreds he was, elaborately ragged, a face overrun with a scrub of beard,
and preternaturally drawn, surmounted by a stiff-dried, dirty, cloth
semi-turban, with a wide, forbidding stain along the side, worked out the
likeness to a make-up.

"My God!" cackled Forsythe with an hysterical explosion; and
 again, "My
God!"

A long-drawn, irrepressible aspiration of expectancy rose from the
warship's decks as the stranger raised his haggard face, turned eyes
unseeingly upon them, and fell back. The forward occupant stirred not,
save as the boat rolled.

From between decks someone called out, sharply, an order. In the grim
silence it seemed strangely incongruous that the measured business of a
ship's life should be going forward as usual. Something within the
newcomer's consciousness stirred to that voice of authority.
Mechanically, like some huge, hideous toy, he raised first one arm, then
the other, and hitched himself halfway up on the stern seat. His mouth
opened. His face wrinkled. He seemed groping for the meaning of a joke at
which he knew he ought to laugh. Suddenly from his lips in surprising
volume, raucous, rasping, yet with a certain rollicking deviltry fit to
set the head a-tilt, burst a chanty:

 "Oh, their coffin was their ship, and their grave it was the sea:
 _Blow high, blow low, what care we!_
 And the quarter that we gave them was to sink them in the sea:
 _Down on the coast of the high Barbaree-ee._"

Long-drawn, like the mockery of a wail, the minor cadence wavered through
the stillness, and died away.

"The High Barbaree!" cried Trendon.

"You know it?" asked the captain, expectant of a clue.

"One of those cursed tunes you can't forget," said the surgeon. "Heard a
scoundrel of a beach-comber sing it years ago. Down in New Zealand, that
was. When the fever rose on him he'd pipe up. Used to beat time with a
steel hook he wore in place of a hand. The thing haunted me till I was
sorry I hadn't let the rascal die. This creature might have learned it
from him. Howls it out exactly like."

"I don't see that that helps us any," said Forsythe, looking down on the
preparations that were making to receive the unexpected guests.

With a deftness which had made the _Wolverine_ famous in the navy
for the niceties of seamanship, the great cruiser let down her tackle as
she drew skilfully alongside, and made
 fast, preparatory to lifting the
dory gently to her broad deck. But before the order came to hoist away,
one of the jackies who had gone down drew the covering back from the
still figure forward, and turned it over. With a half-stifled cry he
shrank back. And at that the tension of soul and mind on the
_Wolverine_ snapped, breaking into outcries and sudden, sharp
imprecations. The face revealed was that of Timmins, the bo's'n's mate,
who had sailed with the first vanished crew. A life preserver was
fastened under his arms. He was dead.

"I'm out," said the surgeon briefly, and stood with mouth agape. Never
had the disciplined _Wolverines_ performed a sea duty with so ragged
a routine as the getting in of the boat containing the live man and the
dead body. The dead seaman was reverently disposed and covered. As to the
survivor there was some hesitancy on the part of the captain, who was
inclined to send him forward until Dr. Trendon, after a swift scrutiny,
suggested that for the present, at least, he be berthed aft. They took
the stranger to Edwards's vacant room, where Trendon was closeted with
him for half an hour. When he emerged he was beset with questions.

"Can't give any account of himself yet," said the surgeon. "Weak and not
rightly conscious."

"What ails him?"

"Enough. Gash in his scalp. Fever. Thirst and exhaustion. Nervous shock,
too, I think."

"How came he aboard the _Laughing Lass_?" "Does he know anything of
Billy?" "Was he a stow-away?" "Did you ask him about Ives and McGuire?"
"How came he in the small boat?" "Where are the rest?"

"Now, now," said the veteran chidingly. "How can I tell? Would you have
me kill the man with questions?"

He left them to look at the body of the bo's'n's mate. Not a word had he
to say when he returned. Only the captain got anything out of him but
growling and unintelligible expressions, which seemed to be objurgatory
and to express bewildered cogitation.

"How long had poor Timmins been drowned?" the captain had asked him, and
Trendon replied:

"Captain Parkinson
, the man wasn't drowned. No water in his lungs."

"Not drowned! Then how came he by his death?"

"If I were to diagnose it under any other conditions I should say that he
had inhaled flames."

Then the two men stared at each other in blank impotency. Meantime the
scarecrow was showing signs of returning consciousness and a message was
dispatched for the physician. On his way he met Barnett, who asked and
received permission to accompany him. The stranger was tossing restlessly
in his bunk, opening and shutting his parched mouth in silent, piteous
appeal for the water that must still be doled to him parsimoniously.

"I think I'll try him with a little brandy," said Trendon, and sent for
the liquor.

Barnett raised the patient while the surgeon held the glass to his lips.
The man's hand rose, wavered, and clasped the glass.

"All right, my friend. Take it yourself, if you like," said Trendon.

The fingers closed. Tremulously held, the little glass tilted and rattled
against the teeth. There was one deep, eager spasm of swallowing. Then
the fevered eyes opened upon the face of the _Wolverine_'s first
officer.

"Prosit, Barnett," said the man, in a voice like the rasp of rusty metal.

The navy man straightened up as from a blow under the jaw.

"Be careful what you are about," warned Trendon, addressing his superior
officer sharply, for Barnett had all but let his charge drop. His face
was a puckered mask of amaze and incredulity.

"Did you hear him speak my name--or am I dreaming?" he half whispered.

"Heard him plain enough. Who is he?"

The man's eyes closed, but he smiled a little--a singular, wry-mouthed,
winning smile. With that there sprung from behind the brush of beard,
filling out the deep lines of emaciation, a memory to the recognition of
Barnett; a keen and gay countenance that whisked him back across seven
years time to the days of Dewey and the Philippines.

"Ralph Slade, by the Lord!" he exclaimed.

"Of the _Laughing Lass_?" cried Trendon.

"Of the _Laughing Lass_."

Such a fury of eagerness burned in
 the face of Barnett that Trendon
cautioned him. "See here, Mr. Barnett, you're not going to fire a
broadside of disturbing questions at my patient yet a while. He's in no
condition."

But it was from the other that the questions came. Opening his eyes he
whispered, "The sailor? Where?"

"Dead," said Trendon bluntly. Then, breaking his own rule of repression,
he asked:

"Did he come off the schooner with you?"

"Picked him up," was the straining answer. "Drifting."

The survivor looked around him, then into Barnett's face, and his mind
too, traversed the years.

"_North Dakota?_" he queried.

"No; I've changed my ship," said Barnett. "This is the _Wolverine_."

"Where's the _Laughing Lass_?"

Barnett shook his head.

"Tell me," begged Slade.

"Wait till you're stronger," admonished Trendon.

"Can't wait," said the weak voice. The eyes grew wild.

"Mr. Barnett, tell him the bare outline and make it short," said the
surgeon.

"We sighted the _Laughing Lass_ two days ago. She was in good shape,
but deserted. That is, we thought she was deserted."

The man nodded eagerly.

"I suppose you were aboard," said Barnett, and Trendon made a quick
gesture of impatience and rebuke.

"No," said Slade. "Left three--four--don't know how many nights ago."

The officers looked at each other. "Go on," said Trendon to his
companion.

"We put a crew aboard in command of an ensign," continued Barnett, "and
picked up the schooner the next night, deserted. You must know about it.
Where is Billy Edwards?"

"Never heard of him," whispered the other.

"Ives and McGuire, then. They were there after--Great God, man!" he
cried, his agitation breaking out, "Pull yourself together! Give us
something to go on."

"Mr. Barnett!" said the surgeon peremptorily.

But the suggestion was working in the sick man's brain. He turned to the
officers a face of horror.

"Your man, Edwards--the crew--they left her? In the night?"

"What does he mean?" cried Barnett.

"The light! You saw it?"

"Yes; we saw a strange light," answered Trendon soothingly. Slade h
alf
rose. "Lost; all lost!" he cried, and fell back unconscious. Trendon
exploded into curses. "See what you've done to my patient," he fumed.
Barnett looked at him with contrite eyes.

"Better get out before he comes to," growled the surgeon. "Nice way to
treat a man half dead of exhaustion."

It was nearly an hour before Slade came back to the world again. The
doctor forbade him to attempt speech. But of one thing he would not be
denied. There was a struggle for utterance, then:

"The volcano?" he rasped out.

"Dead ahead," was the reply.

"Stand by!" grasped Slade. He strove to rise, to say something further,
but endurance had reached its limit. The man was utterly done.

Dr. Trendon went on deck, his head sunk between his shoulders. For a
minute he was in earnest talk with the captain. Presently the
_Wolverine_'s engines slowed down, and she lay head to the waves,
with just enough turn of the screw to hold her against the sea-way.

VII

THE FREE LANCE

By the following afternoon Dr. Trendon reported his patient as quite
recovered.

"Starved for water," proffered the surgeon. "Tissues fairly dried out.
Soaked him up. Fed him broth. Put him to sleep. He's all right. Just
wakes up to eat; then off again like a two-year old. Wonderful
constitution."

"The gentleman wants to know if he can come on deck, sir," saluted an
orderly.

"Waked up, eh. Come on, Barnett. Help me boost him on deck."

The two officers disappeared to return in a moment arm-in-arm with Ralph
Slade.

Nearly twenty-four hours' rest and skilful treatment had done wonders. He
was still a trifle weak and uncertain, was still a little glad to lean on
the arms of his companions, but his eye was bright and alert, and his
hollow cheeks mounted a slight colour. This, with the clothes lent him by
Barnett, transformed his appearance, and led Captain Parkinson to
congratulate himself that he had not obeyed his first impulse to send the
castaway forward with the men.

The officers pressed forward.

"Mighty glad to see you out." "Hope you've got your pins un
der you
again." "Old man, I'm mighty glad we came along."

The chorus of greeting was hearty enough, but the journalist barely paid
the courtesy of acknowledgment. His eye swept the horizon eagerly until
it rested on the cloud of volcanic smoke billowing up across the setting
sun. A sigh of relief escaped him.

"Where are we?" he asked Barnett. "I mean since you picked me up. How
long ago was that, anyway?"

"Yesterday," replied the navigating officer. "We've stood off and on,
looking for some of our men."

"Then that's the same volcano----"

Barnett laughed softly. "Well, they aren't quite holding a caucus of
volcanoes down in this country. One like that is enough."

But Slade brushed the remark aside.

"Head for it!" he cried excitedly. "We may be in time! There's a man on
that island."

"A man!" "Another!" "Not Billy Edwards?" "Not some of our boys?"

Slade stared at them bewildered.

"Hold on," interposed Dr. Trendon authoritatively. "What's his name?" he
inquired of the journalist.

"Darrow," replied the latter. "Percy Darrow. Do you know him?"

"Who in Kamschatka is Percy Darrow?" demanded Forsythe.

"Why, he's the assistant." It's a long story----"

"Of course, it's a long story. There's a lot we want to know,"
interrupted Captain Parkinson. "Quartermaster, head for the volcano
yonder. Mr. Slade, we want to know where you came from; and why you left
the schooner, and who Percy Darrow is. And there's dinner, so we'll just
adjourn to the messroom and hear what you can tell us. But there's one
thing we're all anxious to know; how came you in the dory which we found
and left on the _Laughing Lass_ no later than two days ago?"

"I haven't set eyes on the _Laughing Lass_ for--well, I don't know
how long, but it's five days anyway, perhaps more," replied Slade.

They stared at him incredulously.

"Oh, I see!" he burst out suddenly; "there were twin dories on the
schooner. The other one's still there, I suppose. Did you find her on the
stern davits?"

"Yes."

"That's it, then. You see when I left----"

Captain Par
kinson's raised hand checked him. "If you will be so good, Mr.
Slade, let us have it all at once, after mess."

At table the young officers, at a sharp hint from Dr. Trendon, conversed
on indifferent subjects until the journalist had partaken heartily of
what the physician allowed him. Slade ate with keen appreciation.

"I tell you, that's good," he sighed, when he had finished. "Real, live,
after-dinner coffee, too. Why, gentlemen, I haven't eaten a civilised
meal, with all the trimmings, for over two years. Doctor, do you think a
little of the real stuff would hurt me? It's a pretty dry yarning."

"One glass," growled the surgeon, "no more."

"Scotch high-ball, then," voted Slade, "the higher the better."

The steward brought a tall glass with ice, in which the newcomer mixed
his drink. Then for quite a minute he sat silent, staring at the table,
his fingers aimlessly rubbing into spots of wetness the water beads as
they gathered on the outside of his glass. Suddenly he looked up.

"I don't know how to begin," he confessed. "It's too confounded
improbable. I hardly believe it myself, now that I'm sitting here in
human clothes, surrounded by human beings. Old Scrubs, and the <DW65>,
and Handy Solomon, and the Professor, and the chest, and the--well, they
were real enough when I was caught in the mess. But I warn you, you are
not going to believe me, and hanged if I blame you a bit."

"We've seen marvels ourselves in the last few days," encouraged Captain
Parkinson.

"Fire ahead, man," advised Barnett impatiently. "Just begin at the
beginning and let it go at that."

Slade sipped at his glass reflectively.

"Well," said he at length, "the best way to begin is to show you how I
happened to be mixed up in it at all."

The officers unconsciously relaxed into attitudes of greater ease.
Overhead the lamps swayed gently to the swell. The dull throb of the
screw pulsated. Stewards clad in white moved noiselessly, filling the
glasses, deferentially striking lights for the smokers, clearing away the
last dishes of the rep
ast.

"I'm a reporter by choice, and a detective by instinct," began Slade,
with startling abruptness. "Furthermore, I'm pretty well off. I'm what
they call a free lance, for I have no regular desk on any of the
journals. I generally turn my stuff in to the _Star_ because they
treat me well. In return it is pretty well understood between us that I'm
to use my judgment in regard to 'stories' and that they'll stand back of
me for expenses. You see, I've been with them quite a while."

He looked around the circle as though in appeal to the comprehension of
his audience. Some of the men nodded. Others sipped from their glasses or
drew at their cigars.

"I loaf around here and there in the world, having a good time
travelling, visiting, fooling around. Every once in a while something
interests me. The thing is a sort of instinct. I run it down. If it's a
good story, I send it in. That's all there is to it." He laughed
slightly. "You see, I'm a sort of magazine writer in method, but my stuff
is newspaper stuff. Also the game suits me. That's why I play it. That's
why I'm here. I have to tell you about myself this way so you will
understand how I came to be mixed up in this _Laughing Lass_
matter."

"I remember," commented Barnett, "that when you came aboard the _South
Dakota_, you had a little trouble making Captain Arnold see it." He
turned to the others with a laugh. "He had all kinds of papers of ancient
date, but nothing modern--letter from the _Star_ dated five years
back, recommendations to everybody on earth, except Captain Arnold,
certificate of bravery in Apache campaign, bank identifications, and all
the rest. 'Maybe you're the _Star's_ correspondent, and maybe you're
not,' said the Captain, 'I don't see anything here to prove it.' Slade
argued an hour; no go. Remember how you caught him?" he inquired of
Slade.

The reporter grinned assent.

"After the old man had turned him down for good, Slade fished down in his
warbag and hauled out an old tattered document from an oilskin case.
'Hold on a minute,' said he
, 'you old shellback. I've proved to you that
I can write; and I've proved to you that I have fought, and now here I'll
prove to you that I can sail. If writing, fighting, and sailing don't fit
me adequately to report any little disturbances your antiquated
washboiler may blunder into, I'll go to raising cabbages.' With that he
presented a master's certificate! Where did you get it, anyway? I never
found out."

"Passed as 'fresh-water' on the Great Lakes," replied Slade briefly.

"Well, the spunk and the certificate finished the captain. He was an old
square rigger himself in the Civil War."

"So much for myself," Slade continued. "As for the _Laughing
Lass_----"

PART TWO

THE BRASS BOUND CHEST

_Being the story told by Ralph Slade, Free Lance, to the officers of
the United States cruiser Wolverine_.

I

THE BARBARY COAST

A coincidence got me aboard her. I'll tell you how it was. One evening
late I was just coming out of a dark alley on the Barbary Coast, San
Francisco. You know--the water front, where you can hear more tongues
than at Port Said, see stranger sights, and meet adventure with the
joyous certainty of mediaeval times. I'd been down there hunting up a man
reported, by a wharf-rat of my acquaintance, to have just returned from a
two years' whaling voyage. He'd been "shanghaied" aboard, and as a matter
of fact, was worth nearly a million dollars. Landed in the city without a
cent, could get nobody to believe him, nor trust him to the extent of a
telegram East. Wharf-rat laughed at his yarn; but I believe it was true.
Good copy anyway----

Just at the turn of the alley I nearly bumped into two men. On the
Barbary Coast you don't pass men in narrow places until you have
reconnoitered a little. I pulled up, thanking fortune that they had not
seen me. The first words were uttered in a voice I knew well.

You've all heard of Dr. Karl Augustus Schermerhorn. He did some big
things, and had in mind still bigger. I'd met him some time before in
connection with his telepathy and wireless waves theory. It was
pi
cturesque stuff for my purpose, but wasn't in it with what the old
fellow had really done. He showed me--well, that doesn't matter. The
point is, that good, staid, self-centred, or rather science-centred, Dr.
Schermerhorn was standing at midnight in a dark alley on the Barbary
Coast in San Francisco talking to an individual whose facial outline at
least was not ornamental.

My curiosity, or professional instinct, whichever you please, was all
aroused. I flattened myself against the wall.

The first remark I lost. The reply came to me in a shrill falsetto. So
grotesque was the effect of this treble from a bulk so squat and broad
and hairy as the silhouette before me that I almost laughed aloud.

"I guess you've made no mistake on that. I'm her master, and her owner
too."

"Well, I haf been told you might rent her," said the Doctor.

"Rent her!" mimicked the falsetto. "Well, that--hell, yes, I'll
_rent_ her!" he laughed again.

"Doch recht." The Doctor was plainly at the end of his practical
resources.

After waiting a moment for something more definite, the falsetto inquired
rather drily:

"How long? What to? What for? Who are you, anyway?"

"I am Dr. Schermerhorn," the latter answered.

"Seen pieces about you in the papers."

"How many men haf you in the crew?"

"Me and the mate and the cook and four hands."

"And you could go--soon?"

"Soon as you want--_if_ I go."

"I wish to leaf to-morrow."

"If I can get the crew together, I might make it. But say, let's not hang
out here in this run of darkness. Come over to the grog shop yonder where
we can sit down."

To my relief, for my curiosity was fully aroused--Dr. Schermerhorn's
movements are usually productive--this proposal was vetoed.

"No, no!" cried the Doctor, with some haste, "this iss well! Somebody
might oferhear."

The huge figure stirred into an attitude of close attention. After a
pause the falsetto asked deliberately:

"Where we goin'?"

"I brefer not to say."

"H'm! How long a cruise?"

"I want to rent your schooner and your crew as-long-as I-please-t
o
remain."

"H'm! How long's that likely to be?"

"Maybe a few months; maybe seferal years."

"H'm! Unknown port; unknown cruise. See here, anything crooked in this?"

"No, no! Not at all! It iss simply business of my own."

"Not that I care," commented the other easily, "only risks is worth
paying for."

"There shall not be risk."

"Pearls likely?" hazarded the other, without much heed to the assurance.
"Them <DW61> gunboats is getting pretty hard to dodge of late years.
However, I've dodged 'em before."

"Now as to pay--how mooch iss your boat worth?"

I could almost follow the man's thoughts as he pondered how much he dared
ask.

"Well, you see, for a proposition like that--don't know where we're
going, when we're going to get back,--and them gunboats--how would a
hundred and twenty-five a month strike you?"

"Double it up. I want you to do ass I say, and I will also give your crew
double wages. Bud I want goot men, who will stay, and who will keep the
mouth shut."

"Gosh all fish-hooks! They'd go to hell with you for that!"

"Now you can get all you want of Adams & Marsh. Tell them it iss for me,
Brovisions for three years, anyhow. Be ready to sail to-morrow."

"Tide turns at eight in the evening."

"I will send some effects in the morning."

The master hesitated.

"That's all right, Doctor, but how do I know it's all right? Maybe by
morning you'll change your mind."

"That cannot be. My plans are all----"

"It's the usual thing to pay something----"

"Ach, but yes. I haf forgot. Darrow told me. I will make you a check. Let
us go to the table of which you spoke."

They moved away, still talking. I did not dare follow them into the
light, for I feared that the Doctor would recognise me. I'd have given my
eye teeth, though, to have gathered the name of the schooner, or that of
her master. As it was, I hung around until the two had emerged from the
corner saloon. They paused outside, still talking earnestly. I ventured a
hasty interview with the bar-keeper.

"Did you notice the two men who were sitting at the mi
ddle table?" I
asked him.

"Sure!" said he, shoving me my glass of beer.

"Know them?" I inquired.

"Never laid eyes on 'em before. Old chap looked like a sort of corn
doctor or corner spell-binder. Other was probably one of these longshore
abalone men."

"Thanks," I muttered, and dodged out again, leaving the beer untouched.

I cursed myself for a blunderer. When I got to the street the two men had
disappeared. I should have shadowed the captain to his vessel.

The affair interested me greatly. Apparently Dr. Schermerhorn was about
to go on a long voyage. I prided myself on being fairly up to date in
regard to the plans of those who interested the public; and the public at
that time was vastly interested in Dr. Schermerhorn. I, in common with
the rest of the world, had imagined him anchored safely in Philadelphia,
immersed in chemical research. Here he bobbed up at the other end of the
continent, making shady bargains with obscure shipping captains, and
paying a big premium for absolute secrecy. It looked good.

Accordingly I was out early the next morning. I had not much to go by;
schooners are as plenty as tadpoles in San Francisco harbour. However, I
was sure I could easily recognise that falsetto voice; and I knew where
the supplies were to be purchased. Adams & Marsh are a large firm, and
cautious. I knew better than to make direct inquiries, or to appear in
the salesroom. But by hanging around the door of the shipping room I soon
had track of the large orders to be sent that day. In this manner I had
no great difficulty in following a truck to Pier 10, nor to identify a
consignment to Captain Ezra Selover as probably that of which I was in
search.

The mate was in charge of the stowage, so I could not be quite sure.
Here, however, was a schooner--of about a hundred and fifty tons burden.
I looked her over.

You're all acquainted with the _Laughing Lass_ and the perfection of
her lines. You have not known her under Captain Ezra Selover. She was the
cleanest ship I ever saw. Don't know how he accomplished it
, with a crew
of four and the cook; but he did. The deck looked as though it had been
holystoned every morning by a crew of jackies; the stays were whipped and
tarred, the mast new-slushed, and every foot of running gear coiled down
shipshape and Bristol fashion. There was a good deal of brass about her;
it shone like gold, and I don't believe she owned an inch of paint that
wasn't either fresh or new-scrubbed.

I gazed for some time at this marvel. It's unusual enough anywhere, but
aboard a California hooker it is little short of miraculous. The crew had
all turned up, apparently, and a swarm of stevedores were hustling every
sort of provisions, supplies, stock, spars, lines and canvas down into
the hold. It was a rush job, and that mate was having his hands full. I
didn't wonder at his language nor at his looks, both of which were
somewhat mussed up. Then almost at my elbow I heard that shrill falsetto
squeal, and turned just in time to see the captain ascend the after
gangplank.

He was probably the most dishevelled and untidy man I ever laid my eyes
on. His hair and beard were not only long, but tangled and unkempt, and
grew so far toward each other as barely to expose a strip of dirty brown
skin. His shoulders were bowed and enormous. His arms hung like a
gorilla's, palms turned slightly outwards. On his head was jammed a linen
boating hat that had once been white; gaping away from his hairy chest
was a faded dingy checked cotton shirt that had once been brown and
white; his blue trousers were spotted and splashed with dusty stains; he
was chewing tobacco. A figure more in contrast to the exquisitely neat
vessel it would be hard to imagine.

The captain mounted the gangplank with a steadiness that disproved my
first suspicion of his having been on a drunk. He glanced aloft, cast a
speculative eye on the stevedores trooping across the waist of the ship,
and ascended to the quarter-deck where the mate stood leaning over the
rail and uttering directed curses from between sweat-beaded lips. There
the big man roa
med aimlessly on what seemed to be a tour of casual
inspection. Once he stopped to breathe on the brass binnacle and to rub
it bright with the dirtiest red bandana handkerchief I ever want to see.

His actions amused me. The discrepancy between his personal habits and
his particularity in the matter of his surroundings was exceedingly
interesting. I have often noticed that such discrepancies seem to
indicate exceptional characters. As I watched him, his whole frame
stiffened. The long gorilla arms contracted, the hairy head sunk forward
in the tenseness of a serpent ready to strike. He uttered a shrill
falsetto shriek that brought to a standstill every stevedore on the job;
and sprang forward to seize his mate by, the shoulder.

Evidently the grasp hurt. I can believe it might, from those huge hands.
The man wrenched himself about with an oath of inquiry and pain. I could
hear one side of what followed. The captain's high-pitched tones carried
clearly; but the grumble and growl of the mate were indistinguishable at
that distance.

"How far is it to the side of the ship, you hound of hell?" shrieked the
captain.

Mumble--surprised--for an answer.

"Well, I'll tell you, you _swab_! It's just two fathom from where
you stand. Just two fathom! How long would it take you to walk there? How
long? Just about six seconds! There and back! You--" I won't bother with
all the epithets, although by now I know Captain Selover's vocabulary
fairly well. "And you couldn't take six seconds off to spit over the
side! Couldn't walk two fathom! Had to spit on my quarter-deck, did you!"

Rumble from the mate.

"No, by God, you won't call up any of the crew. You'll get a swab and do
it yourself. You'll get a _hand_ swab and get down on your knees,
damn you! I'll teach you to be lazy!"

The mate said something again.

"It don't matter if we ain't under way. That has nothing to do with it.
The quarter-deck is clean, if the waist ain't, and nobody but a damn
misbegotten son-of-a-sea-lawyer would spit on deck anyhow!" From this
Captain Selo
ver went on into a good old-fashioned deep-sea "cussing out,"
to the great joy of the stevedores.

The mate stood it pretty well, but there comes a time when further talk
is useless even in regard to a most heinous offense. And, of course, as
you know, the mate could hardly consider himself very seriously at fault.
Why, the ship was not yet at sea, and in all the clutter of charging. He
began to answer back. In a moment it was a quarrel. Abruptly it was a
fight. The mate marked Selover beneath the left eye. The captain with
beautiful simplicity crushed his antagonist in his gorilla-like squeeze,
carried him to the side of the vessel, and dropped him limp and beaten to
the pier. And the mate was a good stout specimen of a sea-farer, too.

Then the captain rushed below, emerging after an instant with a chest
which he flung after his subordinate. It was followed a moment later by a
stream of small stuff,--mingled with language--projected through an open
port-hole. This in turn ceased. The captain reappeared with a pail and
brush, scrubbed feverishly at the offending spot, mopped it dry with that
same old red bandana handkerchief, glared about him,--and abruptly became
as serene and placid as a noon calm. He took up the direction of the
stevedores. It was all most astounding.

Nobody paid any attention to the mate. He looked toward the ship once or
twice, thought better of it, and began to pick up his effects, muttering
savagely. In a moment or so he threw his chest aboard an outgoing truck
and departed.

It was now nearly noon and I was just in the way of going for something
to eat, when I caught sight of another dray laden with boxes and crated
affairs which I recognised as scientific apparatus. It was followed in
quick succession by three others. Ignorant as I was of the requirements
of a scientist, my common sense told me this could be no exploring
outfit. I revised my first intention of going to the club, and bought a
sandwich or two at the corner coffee house. I don't know why, but even
then the affair seemed b
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent, post-paid, |
 | on receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New-York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO'S MONTHLY. |
 | THE FIVE NUMBERS FOR APRIL |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | IS NOW READY. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | SUPPLIED BY THE |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY. |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and cheaper |
 | than any other Pen In the market. Special attention is |
 | called to the following grades, as being better suited for |
 | business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | We recommend for bank and office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | |
 | _Sole Agents for United States._ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol. 1. No. 9.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, MAY 28, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW-YORK.

 * * * * *

_Will Shortly appear: Our New Serial, Written expressly for
Punchinello, by ORPHEUS C. KERR, Entitled, "The Mystery of Mr. E.
Drood." To be continued weekly during this year._

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO |
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON, |
 | |
 | Room No. 4, |
 | |
 | 83 NASSAU STREET. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Notice to Ladies. |
 | |

 | DIBBLEE, |
 | |
 | Of 854 Broadway, |
 | |
 | Has just received a large assortment of all the latest |
 | styles of Chignons, Chatelaines, etc., |
 | |
 | FROM PARIS. |
 | |
 | Comprising the following beautiful varieties: |
 | |
 | La Coquette, La Plenitude, La Bouquet, La Sirene, |
 | L'Imperatrice etc., |
 | |
 | At prices varying from $2 upward. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | AGENTS WANTED |
 | |
 | In every town, county, and State, to canvass for HENRY WARD |
 | BEECHER'S great weekly paper, with which is GIVEN AWAY that |
 | superb and world-renowned work of art, "_Marshall's |
 | Household Engraving of Washington_." The best paper and the |
 | grandest engraving In America. Agents report "making $20 in |
 | half a day." "Sales easier than books, and profits greater." |
 | Ladies or gentlemen desiring immediate or largely |
 | remunerative employment should apply at once. Book |
 | canvassers, and all soliciting agents will find more money |
 | in this than in anything else. It is something _entirely |
 | new_, being an _unprecedented combination_ and very taking. |
 | Send for circular and terms to |
 | |
 | J. B. FORD & CO., Publishers, |
 | |
 | 39 Park Row, New-York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PHELAN & COLLENDER, |
 | |
 | MANUFACTURERS OF |
 | |
 | Standard American Billiard Tables. |
 | |
 | WAREROOMS AND OFFICE, |
 | |
 | 738 BROADWAY, NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | DRAUGHTSMAN AND DESIGNER, |
 | |
 | 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11. |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | No. 208 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Thomas J. Rayner & Co., |
 | |
 | 29 LIBERTY STREET, |
 | |
 | New-York, |
 | |
 | MANUFACTURERS OF 
THE |
 | |
 | _Finest Cigars made in the United States._ |
 | |
 | |
 | All sizes and styles. Prices very moderate. Samples sent to |
 | any responsible house. Also importers of the |
 | |
 | _"FUSBOS" BRAND,_ |
 | |
 | Equal in quality to the best of the Havana market, and from |
 | ten to twenty per cent cheaper. |
 | |
 | Restaurant, Bar, Hotel, and Saloon trade will save money by |
 | calling at |
 | |
 | 29 LIBERTY STREET. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HERCULES MUTUAL |
 | |
 | LIFE ASSURANCE |
 | |
 | SOCIETY |
 | |
 | OF THE UNITED STATES. |
 | |
 | No. 240 Broadway, New-York. |
 | |
 | POLICIES NON-FORFEITABLE. |
 | |
 | All Policies |
 | Entitled to Participation in Profits. |
 | Dividends Declared Annually. |
 | |
 | JAMES D. REYMERT, President. |
 | |
 | ASHER S. MILLS, Secretary. |
 | |
 | THOMAS H. WHITE. M.D., Medical Examiner. |
 | |
 | ACTIVE AGENTS WANTED. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO. |
 | |
 | With a large and varied experience in the management and |
 | publication of a paper of the class herewith submitted, and |
 | with the still more positive advantage of an Ample Capital |
 | to justify the undertaking, the |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO. |
 | |
 | OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK, |
 | |
 | Presents to the public for approval, the |
 | |
 | NEW ILLUSTRATED HUMOROUS AND SATIRICAL |
 | |
 | WEEKLY PAPER, |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO, |
 | |
 | The first number of which was issued under date of April 2. |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO will be entirely original; humorous and witty |
 | without vulgarity, and satirical without malice. It will be |
 | printed on a superior tinted paper of sixteen pages, size 13 |
 | by 9, and will be for sale by all respectable newsdealers |
 | who have the judgment to know a good thing when they see it, |
 | or by subscription from this office. |
 | |
 | ORIGINAL ARTICLES, |
 | |
 | Suitable for the paper, and Original Designs, or suggestive |
 | ideas or sketches for
 illustrations, upon the topics of the |
 | day, are always acceptable, and will be paid for liberally. |
 | |
 | Terms: |
 | |
 | One copy, per year, in advance ....................... $4.00 |
 | |
 | Single copies, ten cents. |
 | |
 | A specimen copy will be mailed free upon the receipt of ten |
 | cents. |
 | |
 | One copy, with the Riverside Magazine, or any other magazine |
 | or paper, price, $2.50, for ......................... 5.50 |
 | |
 | One copy, with any magazine or paper, price, $4, for .. 7.00 |
 | |
 | All communications, remittances, etc., to be addressed to |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK |
 | |
 | P.O. Box, 2783. |
 | |
 | (_For terms to Clubs, see 16th page_.) |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Mercantile Library, |
 | |
 | Clinton Hall, Astor Place, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 | This is now the largest circulating Library in America, the |
 | number of volumes on its shelves being 114,000. About |
 | 1000 volumes are added each month; and very large purchases |
 | are made of all new and popular works. |
 | |
 |Books are delivered at members' residences for five cents each|
 | delivery. |
 | |
 | |
 | TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP: |
 | |
 | TO CLERKS, |
 | |
 | $1 Initiation, $3 Annual Dues. |
 | |
 | TO OTHERS, $5 a year. |
 | |
 | SUBSCRIPTIONS TAKEN FOR |
 | SIX MONTHS. |
 | |
 | BRANCH OFFICES |
 | |
 | AT |
 | |
 | NO. 76 CEDAR STREET, NEW-YORK, |
 | |
 | AND AT |
 | |
 | Yonkers, Norwalk, Stamford, and Elizabeth. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | AMERICAN |
 | |
 | BUTTONHOLE, OVERSEAMING, |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | SEWING-MACHINE CO., |
 | |
 | 572 and 574 Broadway, New-York. |
 | |
 | This great combination machine is the last and greatest |
 | Improvement on all former machines, making, in addition to |
 | all the work done on best Lock-Stitch machines, beautiful |
 | |
 | BUTTON AND EYELET HOLES. |
 | |
 | in all fabrics. |
 | |
 | Machine, with
 finely finished |
 | |
 | OILED WALNUT TABLE AND COVER |
 | |
 | complete, $75. Same machine, without the buttonhole parts, |
 | $60. This last is beyond all question the simplest, easiest |
 | to manage and to keep in order, of any machine in the |
 | market. Machines warranted, and full instruction given to |
 | purchasers. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY SPEAR, PRINTER, |
 | |
 | LITHOGRAPHER, |
 | |
 | STATIONER. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing Houses |
 | can have the same forwarded by inclosing two stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO. |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 | [P.O. Box 2783.] |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

 * * * * *

[Illustration: AT THE MERCANTILE LIBRARY.

_Mr. Nottmuch_, (to Clerk in Library.) "I SEE BY YOUR CIRCULAR THAT
VISITORS OF DISTINCTION HAVE FREE ACCESS TO YOUR READING-ROOM, AND AS I
HAVE CONTRIBUTED A STORY TO THE 'WAYERLY MAGAZINE,'" etc.

_Nottmuch_, (having obtained access to the reading-room.) "A VERY PRETTY
GIRL, THAT SUPERINTENDENT! HAS SHE PERUSED MY STORY, OR DO I DAZZLE HER
WITH MY LOOKS? HA! SHE RISES!----."

_Lady Superintendent_. (blandly but firmly). "EXCUSE ME, SIR, BUT IT'S
AGAINST THE RULES FOR GENTLEMEN TO PLACE THEIR FEET ON CHAIRS."]

 * * * * *

HIGH NOTES BY OUR MUSICAL CRITIC.

PUNCHINELLO'S critic, always the friend of fair-play, resents the
insinuation that Mr. CARL ROSA has been a careless director of Opera.
The truth is that Mr. ROSA has not produced the smallest work without a
great deal of Preparation.

FLOTOW'S _Shadow
_ is to be brought out in London. It will not stand the
ghost of a chance unless well mounted. Music light and sketchy;
remarkable for a Chorus of Fishermen, well known as the "Shad oh! song."

_Lohengrin_ has had a run of eight nights at Brussels, with average
receipts of little less than four thousand francs. This sort of tune is
the only one in the music of the Future which managers can understand.
Nevertheless Herr WAGNER is not out of spirits. Intent upon laying the
foundations of future wealth and fame, he can lay Low and Grin. Brussels
gold will serve him as well as _Rheingold_.

The difference between BACH'S music find a music-box is yet an unsettled
conundrum. Such is likely to be the fate of the question raised with so
much temper over the Passion Music of that great man by the English
critics. Shame on all critics that condemn MOZART as a fogy and BACH as
a nuisance. Of course it is going back on BACH with a vengeance, but
what sympathy can exist between the old fuguemakers and the modern
high-flyers?

 * * * * *

LATEST NEWS ITEMS.

A SHEFFIELD paper has been prosecuted for asserting that the Prince of
Wales was a fast young man. The prosecution was withdrawn as soon as the
editor confessed that the Prince was loose.

The Treasury Department is much distressed by the great genius for
smuggling displayed by the Chinese immigrants. They secrete opium in all
sorts of wonderful places, and so worry the custom-house officers
dreadfully. Several children have been arrested for bringing their
"poppies" over with them, and feeling in favor of the offenders ran so
high that a number of women were fined for having a share in laud'n'm.

The bull fights in London have come to a mournful conclusion. The bulls
refused to take part, and the principal combatant instead of being all
Matted O'er with the blood of his taurine victims, has been sent to
prison for trying to Pick a Door lock.

The Last of the Piegans is travelling East, on his way to Philadelphia,
to see "SHERIDAN'S Ride." He was away from home when PHILIP
 was there,
and is very anxious to know the young man when he sees him again. Hence
his laudable anxiety to study the picture.

The Fenian Army.

If the Fenians send an army to aid the Red river insurgents, it may
probably be the only "BIEL" work they will attempt this year.

 * * * * *

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.

 * * * * *

WHAT I KNOW ABOUT PROTECTION.

DEAR PUNCHINELLO: Having skilfully illuminated Free Trade, I now proceed
to elucidate Protection. You see when we reach Protection, the boot is
on the other leg; _you_ make the conundrums then, and the other man
tries to guess them. There are many kinds of protection; there's the
kind which a State's prison-keeper gives to one of his birds; the kind
which a black-and-tan terrier, or a freshly-imported Chinaman, extends
to a good fat rat; the kind which a pious young man offers to a fair and
tender damsel, when he places his arm around her dainty waist, and
gently absorbs the dew of innocence from her rosy lips, (that idea, is,
I think, plagiarized from TENNYSON,) and the kind which a delicate
mother-in-law, blessed with nerves, pours out upon her son-in-law. But I
leave the discussion of such things to weaker birds, and soar myself to
a higher kind, _i.e._, that Protection which is diametrically opposed to
Free Trade.

Protection, in this sense, is--well, let me follow my own admirable
example, and illustrate: You own a coal mine in Pennsylvania, which
contains tolerably poor coal, with which you mix a proper amount of
stone, and then sell the mixture for a high price. ICHABOD BLUE-NOSE
owns a coal mine in Nova Scotia, which furnishes good coal; he puts no
slate in it, and yet sells it at a low figure. You reflect that with
such opposition you will never manage to dispose of all your stone, so
you apply to Congress, and have a high tariff put on coal. That's
Protection. Metaphysically defi
ned, Protection is the natural right,
inherent in every American citizen, to obtain money in large quantities
for goods of small qualities.

Protection is not a natural production; it was invented about the time
taxes were, though it must be admitted that those very annoying articles
appeared very early in the history of the human race. I've no doubt that
ADAM levied taxes, though it's very doubtful if he could put as many
things in a tax levy as a New York politician can. Certainly there was a
very high tariff on apples in his day--so high that humanity has not yet
succeeded in paying off the duty on the one ADAM ate. ABRAHAM paid
taxes, and, as he was his own Senate and House, doubtless he passed a
tariff bill to suit himself, and had any quantity of Protection. I have
always regretted that NOAH didn't pass a bill protecting native
industry, because he could have enforced it, and had no wrangling about
it.

There are one or two points about Protection which a wayfaring man, even
if people labor under the impression that he is a fool, can understand.
If you are JOHN SMITH and own a coal mine or an iron mill, you go to
Washington, see your Congressman, (by see I mean look at him, of
course,) donate large sums of money to certain poor, but honest men, who
adorn the lobby of the House, while they are waiting for generous
patrons like unto you, then go home and calmly await the result. Your
representative makes a speech, the exordium of which is Patriotism, the
peroration of which is Star-Spangled Banner, and the central plum of
which is your coal mine or iron mill. Your poor and honest friends wear
out several pairs of shoes, the tariff bill is passed, your mine or mill
is abundantly protected, and the country is saved. If, on the other
hand, you are JOHN BROWN, and raise cabbages and turnips on a farm, you
are allowed to pay high prices for SMITH'S coal or iron, but you expect
no Protection, and you've a sure thing of getting what you expect.

Of course you don't imagine that I shall explain the details of this
pr
ofound subject. There are only two men in this country who think they
can do that, and each one of those says that the other is an idiot. As a
rule, figures can't lie; but look out for the exceptions when you run
across the subject of Protection. The very same figures have an ugly way
of proving both sides of a question. You run down a fact, and think
you've got it, but, before you know it, it has slipped, like the "little
joker," over to the other side.

Personally, I am a Protectionist. Formerly I indulged in that monstrous
absurdity, Free Trade, but then I was an importer; now, being a
manufacturer, the scales have fallen from my eyes, and I am of the
straitest sect a Protectionist. You can't give me too much of it. Of
course I can't see why pig-iron should be protected, and pigs not. I
think every native production should be cared for, and that there should
be an excessively high tariff on foreign food. In that case poor REVERDY
JOHNSON would have been compelled to have passed a Lenten season at
Halifax, until he had eradicated from his system the rich English
dinners, before he could have entered this favored land. And
MOTLEY--bless me, he has eaten so much that I don't believe he could get
it out of his body if he fasted for the remainder of his natural life.

I am informed, however, that Protection does us one injury. All the
_World_ says that there is a Parsee in our land, who is loaded with
rupees, but who is unable to spend them here because of our protective
system, and what all the _World_ says, you know, must be true. However,
there are 40,000,000 of us, and, if Congress will make all Americans buy
my patent door-knobs, the Parsee can go to--Hindostan.

I don't think any thing more can be said about Protection. Any body who
doesn't understand it now had better go to Washington, and listen to the
debate on scrap-iron. That will sharpen his wits. Pig-iron, of course,
is interesting, but then that's a light and airy subject. Hear the
debate on scrap-iron, by all means.

LOT.

 * * * * *

A LITERARY VAMP
IRE.

No greater mistake was ever made than the supposition that PUNCHINELLO
is to be assailed with impunity by rival publications. It is well known
that he never courted controversies or quarrels, and his best friends
understand perfectly his love for a peaceable career. But when that
flippant sheet, known as _Rees's American Encyclopedia_, comes out with
a violent attack upon PUNCHINELLO'S past life and present course, the
assault is such as would provoke a retort from any honest man. The vile
insinuation that PUNCHINELLO is printed and published for the sole
purpose of making money out of its subscribers and the reading public in
general, is too mendacious for refutation; and when the reckless editor
of the periodical in question gravely announces that he can never read
PUNCHINELLO without laughing at its contents, it will be readily seen
that he goes so far as to make use of the truth to serve his wicked
purposes. But the descent which this shameless conductor of a journal,
confessedly the organ of our ignorant masses, has made into the private
life of PUNCHINELLO, is without precedent. He states that for the first
fourteen years of his life, PUNCHINELLO was, to all intents and
purposes, a person of little or no fortune, and that he depended
entirely upon his parents for support; that, until he had reached his
fifth birthday, he had absolutely no knowledge of English literature,
and was entirely ignorant of even the rudiments of the classics; that he
never paid one cent of income tax at that period of his life; and that
his belief in the fundamental principles of political economy was, at
that time, doubted by all who knew him best! Are such statements as
these to be submitted to by a man of honor? Never! PUNCHINELLO dares the
recreant editor of the dirty sheet to do his worst! Of that base man he
could tell much which would render him unfit for the association of any
person living, but he forbears. This much, however, he will say. It is
well known that the said calumniator did, at many periods of his life,
m
ake use of the services of a _calceolarius_. Think of that, freemen of
America! He has often been known to submit to indignities, such as
nose-pulling from the hands of a common _tonsor_, and has been
frequently in such a condition that he could not appear in public
without the assistance of a _sartor_! Is it fitting that a high-toned
journalist should engage in petty recriminations with such a one?
"Revenge," says JAMES MURDOCK, "is the sweetest morsel cooked in its own
gravy, with _sauce moyennaise_." "Yes," said Dean SWIFT, "and let us
have some, and a little gin, say five fingers, and a trifle of milk."
Thus it is that we regard the editor of the _Encyclopedia_.

CARLYLE remarks, "Many a vessel, (for if not a Vessel, then surely we,
or our progenitors, in counting ships, and the assumptive floatative
mechanisms of anterior and past ages; or as the Assyrians
[under-estimating the force of the correlative elements] declared a
bridging, or a going over [not of seas merely, but of those chaotic gaps
of the mind] are all wrong enough indeed,) has never got there."

We also think of that editor in this way, and trust that enough has been
said to make it plain that PUNCHINELLO is not to be attacked with
impunity by every little journal of the day.

 * * * * *

Encouraging for Travellers.

The managers of a leading railroad announce that they take passengers
"to all principal points of the West without change." Such unusual
liberality, at a time when Change is so scarce with many people,
ought to insure for that railroad a great success.

 * * * * *

Alike, but Different.

Poetry sometimes has a Ring in it. So has a pig's nose.

 * * * * *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

Military dramas might, as a rule, be called with equal propriety
millinery dramas. In other words, their success is generally due to
their costumes. In this respect they afford a marked contrast to ballet
spectacles. The latter give us inanity without clothes; the former,
inanity in particularly gorgeous clothes. Which, again, leads to the
further remark that
 the difference between the two styles of inanity is,
after all, a clothes thing. This is a joke.

The _Lancers_, now running at WALLACK'S, (a proceeding which implies no
want of bravery on the part of that distinguished corps,) is, however,
unlike most military dramas, inasmuch as it is a bright and brilliant
play. Moreover, it is acted by the best members of the Company in their
very best manner. Miss LOUISA MOORE, whose golden hair and silvery voice
become an actress of genuine mettle as well as gentle grace, is ESTELLE,
the heroine; Miss EMILY MESTAYER is the Commanding Sister of Col. EPEE
who is personated by Mr. FISHER; Mr. WYNDHAM is the Graceless Private,
who, having spent his last penny, enlists in the Lancers and spends vast
sums in beneficiary beer in company with his comrades; Mr. WILLIAMSON is
the Kindly Sergeant; Mr. RINGGOLD is the Genial Artist, whose velvet
coat suggests that he has recently managed a Starr _opera bouffe_
enterprise; and Mr. STODDART is happy in the congenial character of a
Clumsy Trumpeter. If any speculative manager pretends that he has a
better hypothetical cast in his eye than the present cast of the
_Lancers_, let him be given to the surgical tormentors to be operated
upon for malignant _strabismus_.

The curtain rises upon the Genial Artist searching for his friend, the
Graceless Private, in the empty jugs and glasses at the _Golden Sun
Inn_. To him enters the Clumsy Trumpeter.

_Genial Artist_. "Where can he be? It--it must, and yet--"

_Clumsy Trumpeter (without Stoddart's usual oath.)_ "He's got 'em.
Hallo! friend. Do you want any thing?"

_Genial Artist_. "Yes--no--that is--or rather it isn't--" (_Exit, while
Trumpeter makes faces at the gallery_.)

_Enter_ ESTELLE _and her maid, disguised as peasants, and pursued by a
troop of lancers_.

_All the Lancers_. "Let _me_ kiss 'em."

_Both the Girls_. "Scr-r-r-r-e-e-e-ch."

(_Enter Graceless Private_.)

_Graceless Private_. "I will protect you. Get out, all you fellows."
(_They get out_.)

A flirtation between the Private an
d ESTELLE is at once begun, from
which it appears that she came to catch a glimpse of the Colonel, who
wants to marry her. She and the Private sit on the table, and fall
instantaneously in love. As soon as they are well in, the Lancers
return, and ESTELLE flies. Graceless Private, having no money, pays for
the co-inebriation of the entire corps, and while engaged in this
praiseworthy occupation is found by the Genial Artist, who makes him
promise to attend a ball at a neighboring _chateau_. Enter Kindly
Sergeant, who arrests the Graceless Private, and puts him in the
guard-house. Curtain falls amid faces from STODDART (without his usual
oath) and applause from the audience.

_Veteran Play-goer_. "Well, I've seen STODDART in every thing he has
played this year, and this is the first time he has failed to swear on
every ineligible occasion."

_Young Lady who frequents Wallack's_. "Who is that Clumsy Trumpeter? I
don't know him."

_Accompanying Young Man_. "Why, don't you know STODDART?"

_Young Lady_. "Nonsense; that isn't STODDART. Why, he hasn't sworn
once."

_Fast Young Man_. "STODDART isn't himself to-night. He hasn't the spirit
to swear. Did you hear the good thing he said Monday night about Miss
MOORE? It was devilish good. Says he--" (_Repeats an indelicate joke_.)

_Irate Old Gentleman who overhears the story_. "If he said that, sir, he
ought to have been hissed off the stage, sir; and turned out of the
company, sir! It was an insult to an estimable lady, and an outrage on
the audience, sir!"

_The second act takes place in the salon of ESTELLE. The Colonel and his
Commanding Sister lay siege to_ ESTELLE'S _heart. Graceless Private, in
evening dress, countermines the Colonel's forces and routs them, wading
deeper than before in the exhilarating surf of love, hand in hand with_
ESTELLE. (_This metaphor has been leased for a term of years to a
distinguished hydropathic poet.) Clumsy Trumpeter drops books and things
all over the room, and recognises the Graceless Private. Finally the
Colonel and the latter qua
rrel, and go out in the back yard to fight,
where the Private is wounded in the arm. The Colonel returns and
announces the result to_ ESTELLE, _who swoons, or at all events, makes
an admirable feint of so doing. Curtain._

_Fast Young Man_. "STODDART didn't try his good joke to-night. He'll say
something yet, though, before the play is over."

_Every body Else_. "Did you ever see better acting than WYNDHAM'S and
Miss MOORE'S? And how capitally FISHER and Miss MESTAYER are playing?
STODDART positively hasn't sworn yet. What can be the matter with him?"

_Inquiring Maiden, to her travelled lover_. "Are the uniforms just like
those of the real French Lancers?"

_Travelled Lover_. "Very nearly. There is one button too many on the
front of the Colonel's coat. I know the regiment well. It's the crack
artillery regiment in the French service."

_Act III. shows us the Graceless Private brought before the Colonel for
examination. He feigns drunkenness, but the Colonel suspects him of
having been his adversary at the ball_. ESTELLE _visits the Colonel in
order to save her Private lover. He is proved to have broken his arrest,
and is sentenced to death_. ESTELLE _offers to marry the Colonel if he
will pardon the Private. The latter's discharge arrives in the nick of
time, and as he is thus beyond the reach of the Colonel's vengeance, he
graciously pardons him, and joins his hand to that of_ ESTELLE. _He
remarks--or ought to--"Bless you, my children." Every body suddenly
finds out that every body else is noble and generous. And so the curtain
falls upon a happy garrison, including a Trumpeter who has not sworn a
single oath_.

_One Half of the Audience_. "How do you like it? I like it so much."

_The Other Half_. "I like it immensely."

_Chorus from Every body_. "Why didn't STODDART swear?"

_Answering Echo from the Tipperary Hills_. "Because WALLACK has told him
that the public won't stand it any longer."

And the public is right. Mr. STODDART is an exceptionally able actor,
but of late he has grown intolerably coarse and v
ulgar while on the
stage. His profanity has disgraced himself and the theatre, and his
gratuitous insult to an estimable lady, who had the misfortune to appear
in the same scene with him on Monday night, should have secured his
instant dismissal from the company, and his perpetual banishment to
_Tammany_ or _Tony Pastor's_. Let him turn over a new leaf at once. He
does not swear in the present play, and the fact is creditable to him.
He is a gentleman in private life; let him be a gentleman on the stage.
By so doing he will soon be recognized as one of the best comedians of
the day. And PUNCHINELLO will be the first to praise him when he lays
aside the unnecessary vulgarity with which he has latterly bid for the
applause of the gallery.

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

THE RELIGION OF TEMPERANCE.

 Says Poet to Parson--To save men from drinking,
 Not many religions are good to my thinking;
 To be sure a good Baptist a man of true grace is,
 But a Hard Shell, my brother's the hardest of cases.
 Your Shouter's too noisy for temperance talking,
 Your Come-outer too harsh for right temperate walking.
 A Quaker's not steady enough on his beam-ends,
 And a Shaker is bad for _delirium tremens_.
 But of all the hard drinkers religion has warmed,
 To my mind the most hopeful's the _German Reformed_.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE PET DOGS OF NEW-YORK PRESENT THEIR COMPLIMENTS, WITH
THE ABOVE CUT, TO MR. BERGH, AND REQUEST THAT HE WILL CUR-TAIL THE
SPORTS OF THOUGHTLESS CHILDREN WHO INSIST UPON PLAYING AT "HORSE" WITH
THEM.]

 * * * * *

Logical.

One PULLMAN, who preaches the "milk of the word," (not without gin,
PUNCHINELLO supposes,) declares that the BIBLE is full of lies. Well,
according to his own view of it, PULLMAN must be full of Scripture.

 * * * * *

The Real Fact.

Mr. COLFAX, says the Cincinnati Gazette, intends to call his new-born
son CASABLANCA, the Vice-President having once "stood on a burning
deck," etc. PUNCHINELLO discovers a shrewder reason. The plain English
for Casablanca is White-House.

 * * * * *

Concea
led Weapons.

Detroit drunkards, says an exchange, use a stocking with a stone in it
to avoid arrest--just as if a hat "with a brick in it" were not enough!

 * * * * *

Written With a Steal Pen.

So great is the habit among editors of cribbing from each other, that if
one were to write an article about an egg another would immediately
Poach it.

 * * * * *

The Battle of Hastings.

The fight between the _Commercial Advertiser_ and THEODORE TILTON.

 * * * * *

Triumphs of the Chisel.

The Wall street "busts." Good judges pronounce them Per Phidias.

 * * * * *

What an Asthmatic Artist can not Draw.

A long breath.

 * * * * *

"The American Working-woman's Union" Most Sought After.

MARRIAGE.

 * * * * *

The Latest Edition of "Shoo! Fly."

"MOSQUITO" at Niblo's.

 * * * * *

THE CONGRESSMAN TO HIS CRITICS.

 Well, talk, if you like; I suppose it's your way;
 Each citizen, surely, should say all his say;
 _I_ did just so, when I'd nothing to do;
 And if _I_ felt like doing so, why shouldn't _you_!

 It's republican, pleasant, and safe, to find fault;
 If a man can't do _that_, why he's not worth his salt.
 And never, since critics (and fleas) learned their powers,
 Was a country more blest with such vermin than ours.

 You've learned much about your old friend, it is said;
 The farther I'm from you, the plainer I'm read!
 When "one of the people" comes here to make laws,
 The "people" disown him. Now, what is the cause?

 You say I'm not "dignified." Well, friends--are you?
 My language, my manners, are rough, it is true;
 My tones, and my jokes, (since you say it,) are coarse;
 But very few streams rise above their own source.

 If we're all "politicians," and they are such trash
 As you have declared them, why were you so rash
 As to give us your votes? What! will nobody "run"
 But a "mere politician?" Why, then we're undone!

 Come, come--this is nonsense! Be fair, my good sirs!
 Let us look at this question. Suppose it occurs
 That a long, prosy speech is about to be made;
 If you say, "Stay and hear it," m
ust you be obeyed?

 But ours is a "serious business." True!
 And so are some other things serious, too!
 Such as courtships, and dinners, and headaches, and blues,
 And sight-seeing friends, whom 'tis death[1] to refuse!

 Now, many of us (though it should not be said!)
 Are really stupid, and haven't much head.
 We don't take that view of our duty that _you_ do;
 We're often so bothered we don't know what _to_ do!

 Our votes look decided--as though we did know;
 But that's because BUTLER or SCHENCK voted so.
 Such points may come up, in the course of the day,
 As would puzzle the Seraphim some, I should say!

 Besides, gentle friends! did you ever think so?
 Perhaps we are paying you all that we owe.
 If you want better service, why send better men,
 And be better yourselves. It will all be right, then.

[Footnote 1: Political death, of course.]

 * * * * *

Come on, Ladies!

An Anti-mustache movement has begun in Boston. PUNCHINELLO to explain
that it begins altogether with the ladies, and is, of course, Right
Against the mustaches.

 * * * * *

For Lunatics Only.

The latest whim of the Lunatics in one of the Indiana Asylums is the
notion that they can design and build opera-houses. Well, we have lots
of crazy architecture, and more than one gentleman has acknowledged
himself insane for investing in opera-houses. But PUNCHINELLO thinks
that the tastes of the insane would be better encouraged if directed to
the building of Courts of Justice. Every Court-house thus constructed,
would be a monument to the Plea of Insanity.

 * * * * *

GLIMPSES OF FORTUNE.

You may not think so, my dear PUNCHINELLO, but it is true. I have had
them. I am not one of your bloated aristocrats--just at the present
moment--but I know as well as any one what WHITTIER meant when he said
"it might have been." As an instance of this, I will just state that it
has not been a very long time since, in looking over the columns of one
of our principal dailies, I saw something among the personals which
seemed to touch my interests in, a very d
ecided way. I often look over
the "Personals," for I know well the connection between fortune and the
Press. I have not forgotten the success of A.T. STEWART and many other
millionaires, and their dependence on the newspapers--but never until
that day had I seen any thing in that mystic column which could possibly
be construed to apply to inc. As for the rest of the paper, I knew that
there was nothing to interest me there. You see I was after Fortune. The
advertisement to which I refer road as follows:

"If the gentleman in a dark hat and gray pantaloons, who, in a Broadway
stage, one day last week, passed up the fare for a lady with blue eyes
and high-heeled boots, will call at 831 Dash street, second floor, he
will hear of something to his advantage. A.R.R."

Now, it so happened, that during the whole of the preceding week I had
worn a black hat and gray pantaloons; indeed, I had them on yet, and, to
tell the truth, I had no others. Therefore, this part of the case was
all clear enough. There was no reason why the gentleman inquired for
should not be me. I had certainly ridden in a stage in the last week,
and I remember very well that I passed up the fare for lady with blue
eyes. I performed a similar service for several ladies; but one of them,
I am sure, had blue eyes. As to the high-heeled boots I suppose she wore
them, but how was I to know that? At all events it would be a piece of
the most culpable indifference to my welfare to neglect this chance.
Fortune! and through a lady, too! To think of it! The promised advantage
might be great or small, but whatever it was, it would be most welcome.
And the honor, too! A piece of positive advantage for an act of manly
gallantry!

I immediately put on that black hat, and with those identical gray
trowsers upon my legs, I strode down to 321 Dash street, and mounted
instantly to the second floor. As there was but one entrance door from
the stair-way on this floor, I felt certain that I had found the right
place.

The business of Mr. A.R.R. was evidently a very profi
table one, for his
room was quite full of people. I inquired of a boy for the author of the
notice I held in my hand, (I had carefully cut it from the paper,) and
was informed that this was the right place, and that the gentleman would
see me in a few moments. I took a seat and regarded the persons who were
standing and sitting about the room. They were all men, and in a few
minutes I discovered, to my great surprise, that they all wore black
hats and gray pantaloons!

I must admit, that when I made this discovery, I experienced a very
peculiar sensation, as if some one had suddenly dropped a little
ice-water down my back. Was it possible that all these men were here in
answer to that advertisement, which I considered addressed to me alone?
There were all sorts of them; old gentlemen with heads grayer than their
pants; young fellows who looked like clerks; and middle-aged men, who
seemed like very respectable heads of families. Was it possible that
each one of those individuals had, in the last week, passed up the fare
of a blue-eyed lady with high-heeled boots? And did each one of them
expect to enjoy that advantage for which I came here? One thing was
certain; they did not announce to each other their business, but looked
at their watches and tapped their boots, and knitted their brows as if
each one of them had come on very particular business, which had nothing
to do with the affairs of the general crowd. But all those gray
trowsers! There was no concealing them.

A door, leading into an adjoining room, now opened quickly, and Mr.
A.R.R. made his appearance. No one doubted that he was the man, for he
bowed politely, and seemed to expect the company. He was a tall, thin,
and well-dressed man, and held in his hand a small package. Instantly
upon his appearance every man in the room stuck his thumb and forefinger
into his vest pocket, and pulling out a little piece of printed paper,
said, "Sir, I called--" A.R.R. waved his hand.

"Gentlemen," said he, "I know why you called, and you will allow me to
remark--"

"
But look here," said a tall man with a blue cravat. "I think that I am
the person you want to see, and as I am in a hurry, I would like to see
you for a few minutes in private."

Dozens of angry eyes were now directed upon this presumptuous
individual, and dozens of angry voices were about to break forth when
the benign A.R.R. again waved his hand.

"Gentlemen," said he, "I wish to see you all. No one more than another.
I have reason to believe that every one of you is the person to whom
that advertisement referred. I see you are all gentlemen, and you would
not have made your appearance here had you not fulfilled the conditions
mentioned in the paper."

Here was a smothered hum, which seemed to precede a general outbreak,
but A.R.R., blandly smiling, continued:

"Gentlemen, do not become impatient. What I have to say is to the
advantage of every one of you. You all move in good society--I can see
that--and you therefore are well aware of some of the penalties of
social pleasures and high living. Consequently, gentlemen," and now he
spoke very fast, as if fearful of interruption, "you must have, all of
you, experienced some of the evils of indigestion, and it is to relieve
these that I have prepared my Binocular Barberry Bitters--"

A roar of rage here broke forth from every man of us, and a rush was
made towards the smiling impostor, but he quickly slipped through the
door behind him, and locked it in our faces. And then, before we could
rush from the room where we had been so shamefully duped, the head of
A.R.R. appeared at a little window in the partition-wall, and he called
out:

"Gentlemen, this mixture is, as my initials declare, a Radical Relief,
and retails at one dollar per bottle, I hope you will take some of my
circulars home with you," and he threw among the crowd the package of
circulars which he had held in his hand.

This, O friend PUNCHINELLO, was only one of my Glimpses of Fortune. I
may yet see the jade more nearly. IMPECUNE.

 * * * * *

Query.

Under the conditions of the Fifteenth Amendment, 
should things continue
to be put down in Black and White?

 * * * * *

[Illustration:

"COMPARISONS ARE ODIOUS."

_Fond Mother._ "YES, HE'S A PRETTY GOOD BOY, BUT HE DON'T
TAKE TO HIS LETTERS."

_Squire._ "WELL, HE OUGHTER, FOR HIS MOUTH IS LIKE THE
SLIT OF A POST-OFFICE BOX."]

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A TABLEAU OF THE DAY.

GENERAL DANA, WHO HAS BROUGHT THE FIRE OF THE "SUN" TO BEAR UPON EVERY
BODY, NOW BEGINS TO REALIZE THE FORCE OF THE PROVERB--"FOLKS WHO LIVE IN
GLASS HOUSES SHOULD NOT THROW STONES."]

 * * * * *

THE INDIAN QUESTION.

[AS VIEWED IN THE WEST.]

 This is _our_ business, understand!
 You Eastern folks, with tempers bland
 All get your views at second-hand.

 We are the ones that take the brunt
 Of every lively Indian-hunt,
 So don't be angry if we're blunt.

 If any body's scalped it's _us!_
 So we've a well-earned right to cuss,
 And you've _no_ right to make a fuss.

 Talk as you please about their "rights;"
 That don't include their coming nights,
 And cutting out our lungs and lights.

 You get your wife and children shot!
 (Here it might happen, like us not,)
 You'll make your mind up on the spot.

 "Humanity" 's played out for _you!_
 You've got some active work to do;
 No doubt you'll see it well put through.

 Until you've settled that small bill,
 (As honorable debtors will,)
 We fancy you will not keep still.

 You will admit the tender plea
 Of "broken faith;" but when you see
 Your Red Skin, you won't let him be!

 Just so with us. We don't go back
 Of _our_ affair! We were not slack
 In justice to this Devil's pack!

 They settle with the wrong concern;
 And as they never, _never'll_ learn,
 We shoot 'em, and don't care a _dern!_

 * * * * *
[Illustration: EDITORIAL WASHING-DAY IN NEW-YORK.]

EDITORIAL WASHING-DAY.

Observe PUNCHINELLO'S Cartoon, in which you shall behold the editorial
laundresses of New-York city having a washy time of it all around. There
is a, shriek of objurgation in the air, and a flutter of soiled linen on
the breeze. Granny MARBLE, to the extreme left of 
the picture, clenches
her fists over the pungent suds, and looks fight at Granny JONES, of the
_Times_. The beaming phiz of Granny GREELEY looms up between the two,
like the sun in a fog. But the real _Sun_ in a fog is to be seen to the
extreme right. There you behold Granny DANA, shaking her "brawny bunch
of fives" in the face of Granny YOUNG, whose manner of wringing out the
linen, you will observe, is up to the highest _Standard_ of that branch
of art. Further away, Granny TILTON flutters her linen with spiteful
flourish, nettled by the vituperation of Granny HASTINGS, who hangs up
her _Commercial_ clothes on the line. The _tableau_ is an instructive
one; and it is to be hoped that all the U-Lye soaps used by the
washerwomen is used up by this time, and that they will replace it with
some having a sweeter perfume.

 * * * * *

BOOK NOTICES.

MRS. JERNINGHAM'S JOURNAL. New-York: Charles Scribner & Company.

A very cleverly-written narrative, in smooth verse, detailing the
experience of a bride who took to flirting early in her matrimonial
career, but was saved from coming to grief by the decisive action of a
stern husband. The book contains a capital lesson for the Girl of the
Period, whose follies are satirized in it with a sharp pen.

 * * * * *

NOTICE.

The attention of the Public is requested to PUNCHINELLO No. 10, which
will be issued upon Thursday, May 26th. It will be a very brilliant
number, illustrated with flights of fancy by ten comic artists.

In PUNCHINELLO No. 11 will be commenced a new burlesque serial, "The
Mystery of Mister E. Drood," written expressly for this paper by the
celebrated humorist, ORPHEUS C. KERR.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: MAKING A HASH OF IT. _Customer_. "I THOUGHT YOU HAD
A GOOD PLACE WITH MR. ASHE; WHY ARE YOU GOING TO LEAVE?"

_Cockney Waiter_. "FACT IS, SIR, HASHE IS IN THE 'ABIT OF MAKING USE OF
HODIOUS LANGUAGE TO HIS WAITERS, SIR, AND NO MAN OF HEDUCATION COULD
STAND _THAT_, SIR, YOU KNOW, SIR."]

 * * * * *

JUMBLES.

MR. PUNCHINELLO, do you know when a woman is perfec
tion itself? "No." I
do. It is when she is from sixteen to nineteen. Of course you take her
judgment. At sixteen she is the coming flower that has come--the first
Rose of Summer, and about the best that may be looked for. Her ideas may
not be solid, but they are expansive. Her mind may not make a very great
show, but her hair (real and otherwise) is sure to. She is very deep in
love--with herself. The supremest divinity is seen when she looks in the
mirror. Call her ARABELLA if you like. ARABELLA is mistress of that
portion of the dictionary which includes the common-place compliments of
society. In her mouth they have a common place, indeed. Some people call
such utterances "stuff," "nonsense," "puerilities," but nobody is so
prejudiced and unreliable as the above-named some people. They
complacently think they know a thing or two, but that is all it amounts
to. ARABELLA hasn't any doubt about her being perfection. Unfortunately
there is a question about some matters in this world in politics,
religion, morality and other kindred things, but on the doctrine of
perfection, as applied to her individual self, ARABELLA is clear and
settled. Did any body, she says _sotto voce_, to herself, ever put
vision on such an ensemble countenance? Were eyes ever more sparkling?
Were ever dimples dimpler? Had ever peach such artistic hue, and teeth
such pearly pearliness, and lips such positive sweetness, and brow such
loveliness? We suppose not. ARABELLA is eighteen, is of elastic notions,
sees life as a romance, believes the ground on which she walks ought to
be grateful for the honor, and wonders if every body who goes out don't
go straightway to talking rapturously about her. ARABELLA is a type--the
type of a class of perfectionists. ARABELLA is neither a worm nor a
butterfly, but the bridge between. For all this ARABELLA believes
herself to be the best of butterflies, with the capacity to fly in the
highest manner. At twenty-five her wings will be clipped, her colors
will modify, her notions renovate, and her eyes open. Sh
e will perceive
that the doctrine of perfection is mythical, and angels upon earth only
so in name.

Going to church is a good thing. All good people go, and from good
motives, of course. Mrs. BROWN, says a wicked gossip, goes to show a
bonnet; Mrs. JONES her shawl; Mrs. SMITH her silk; Mrs. JENKINS her
gloves and fan. No sane person believes that these ladies go for any
such purpose. The case isn't presumable. They are nice, high-toned
people, sit in $800 pews, adore Rev. Dr. CANTWELL, and give very freely
(of their husband's money) to the heathen in the uttermost corners of
the earth. They prefer, good souls, to give to the heathen under the
equator to those under their noses. It is _not_ true that ladies go to
church for the display of dress. It _is_ true Mrs. JONES does not wish
to be outdone by Mrs. JENKINS, and isn't if STEWART can help it, but she
is a good pious woman of simple tastes, though Mr. J. thinks she tastes
rather often. Going to church is a good thing for example's sake. It is
so nice and strengthening to reflect that, as the minister preaches
piety, and you practice poetry, (with a pencil in the prayer-book,) you
set an example to the rising generation. One can never do too much for
the rising generation, though it often rises too frequently and too
high. Besides, it encourages the minister. Only think of talking to
emptiness instead of fulness--to people instead of plush. How can the
dear Rev. SPLURGE SPLUTTER have the heart or tongue to drop his pearls
of eloquence to the swine of empty pews? And how dreadful for the gifted
soprano, Miss SCREECH, to tune her melodious voice to earless aisles!
And then it is so easy to "set" examples by sitting in soft pews, doing
to church should be a matter of conscience. Every body not a dolt admits
conscience to be a good thing, though a thing every body cannot boast of
possessing. I like people of conscience--that is, I should like them if
I knew any. It is such a nice thing to talk about--and how much nicer
to have. Mrs. TODD often wishes "to conscience
" she could reach mine. I
am sorry to say that at times Mrs. T. is an irreverent woman. She
doesn't perceive that some where under that hairless, proud dome of mine
there must be a conscience--I may proudly say, an imposing conscience. I
said to Mrs. T. one day, "I _have_ an imposing conscience," and she
really thought so--adding the cruel expression that she didn't know of
any thing about me but _was_ imposing, and that she first became aware
of the sad fact when she married me.

TIMOTHY TODD.

 * * * * *

THE REIGN OF COUPS.

The situation of France is always striking. This is because its people
are always being struck with a succession of Napoleonic ideas. They
labor, for example, under a constant _coup d'etat_. Their Press is the
victim of a regular _coup de main_; their Strikes are daily evidences of
_coups de mains_; their Legislature suffers continually from _coup de
theatre_; and their Emperor is perpetually threatened with a _coup de
grace_. The energies of Frenchmen are not imprisoned; no, they are only
_couped_.

 * * * * *

ELEVATED STATESMANSHIP--INSOBRIETY THE BEST POLICY.

Sir JOHN MACDONALD, the Premier of Canada, though an eccentric leader,
is a happy illustration of the most elevated statecraft. "He has been
drunk," says the Toronto _Globe_, "for several days, and incapacitated
for public affairs." Considering what Canadian affairs are (including
Sir JOHN,) this does not follow. Evidently it is not his policy to keep
sober. But Sir JOHN is often drunk, says the _Globe_; he was tight
before Prince ARTHUR, and he rushes to the bottle whenever the Fenians
give alarm. Now this strikes us as very good policy. It helps us to see
how convenient it was for Sir JOHN to magnify a few O'BRIENS and
O'SHAUGHNESSYS into an army with green banners, and how opportunely the
Dominion became intoxicated with its fears.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: A POWERFUL PROTECTOR.

_Mother_. "WHY, ROSIE, HOW LATE YOU ARE TO-DAY!"

_Rosie_. "YES, MA, BUT I COULDN'T HELP IT. THERE WAS A POOR LITTLE GIRL
AT SCHOOL WHO HAD NO ONE 
TO TAKE CARE OF HER, AND SO I HAD TO SEE HER
HOME."]

 * * * * *

COMIC ZOOLOGY.

Order-Reptilia.

THE VIPER.

The supposition that this snake prefers a file to any other species of
nourishment is a vulgar error, and belongs to the same mendacious
category as the stories that ostriches are fond of ten-penny nails and
soldiers of hard tack. It is true that old files are sometimes bitten by
vipers in localities where these serpents abound, but in the lizard and
hop-toad they usually find metal more attractive. The viper, when in a
state of repose, is of an olive-brown color; but, if trodden upon, turns
rusty. He is about twenty-four inches in length, as you may see by
applying a two-foot rule to him, but it is a good rule to keep two feet
away from him. As a bosom friend he is not to be trusted--a fact in
natural history that was discovered many years ago by a green
countryman, who got into a bad box by placing a viper on his chest. It
is a peculiarity of this serpent, that when held suspended by his
posterior extremity he can not raise his head to a level with his tail.
In consequence of this provision in the economy of nature, he finds it
as impossible to make both ends meet as if he were a human prodigal. In
this respect he presents a marked contrast to the hoop-snake, which has
no more back-bone than a timid politician, and can put its tail in its
mouth, and roll in any direction with the utmost facility. The viper was
at one time supposed to have an envenomed tongue, and although this
error has been exploded, it is as well to avoid his jaw if possible, as,
when irritated, he is very snappish.

This snake, according to some naturalists, is oviparous, and according
to others viviparous; but all authorities agree that it is viperous in
the extreme. Serpents are generated in various ways; the horse-runner,
for instance, being derived from the fibres of horses' manes and tails,
which probably receive the breath of life in a mare's nest. That such is
the origin of the horse-runner the reader can verify for himself, 
by
putting a few horse hairs in a basin of water and watching them till
they begin to squirm. Possibly the shorter fibres from the _caput_ of an
African might in like manner produce vipers. The experiment is worth
trying. There are several varieties of the species in this country; the
most malignant and treacherous being the Political Vipers--snakes in
the grass--bred from the spawn of the Original Cockatrices, and a curse
to the land we live in.

 * * * * *

WOMAN IN THE CENSUS.

A fresh blow has been struck at Woman's Rights! Gallant ladies, eager to
cope with figures, have been compelled to yield to numbers--inferior
numbers at that! Man, the minority, remains the popular tyrant of
population. Women, the majority, don't count, can't count for any
thing--even for women--at least in the sense of being Census-takers; for
General WALKER has decided that Assistant Marshals LAVINIA PURLEAR and
SARAH BURGOYNE (hear it, shades of NEY and BLUCHER!) are ineligible to
such a warlike title. General WALKER is not firm in his mind that
Marshals PURLEAR and BURGOYNE [would it be as well to say Marshal WALKER
and Generals PURLEAR and BURGOYNE?] are feminine. "These appear to be
the names of women," he says. Why might they not be the names of men? Is
there no right or reason in these days of domestic revolution for men to
name themselves LAVINIA and SARAH if they like it, and their wives like
it? And suppose LAVINIA and SARAH that ought to be, or might have been,
choose to call themselves MAHALALEEL and METHUSALEM--who's to prevent?
Why should not the Rev. Mr.---- style himself Miss NANCY if he pleases?
Why should not the Hon. Mr.---- rechristen himself BETTY if he has a
mind to? H'm! A pretty pass we are coming to if these women folks who
ask men's rights and take men's names won't lend us theirs! And alas,
alas, ye lasses! What if some-day ye do indeed abstract our census, and
marshal us into helpless minority. What if we have to disguise
ourselves, and shave our beards, and change our names even to get on the
police! Or wil
l ye--ye bullying Syrens!--grow whiskers and wear
pantaloons, and put us in station-houses, and clear us out of the Census
altogether?

 * * * * *

A LETTER FROM A FRIEND.

Friend PUNCHINELLO: Thee has doubtless sorrowed, in spite of thy motley,
with those bereft at Richmond. Circumstances made that disaster a
calamity which we have all felt in common. But thee knows that
"Blessings come often in disguise." Let us find what small comfort we
can in this thought.

Circumstances, however, alter cases. How different the feeling--how thin
the disguise would have been--had our Capitol fallen, at Harrisburg!
Before another Session we trust the proper spirit will move some
underpinning there, for the greater good of the Commonwealth. It was
formerly said that "Law is law;" but not even a Philadelphia lawyer now
knows what law is or what law is not--for "any thing" is law here
abouts. Of one result we may boast, if that be not sinful, we are ahead
of thy wicked city.. Thee had thy delinquent Tax Collector, _but thee
has him not_. We sorrowed, for we had him not, but now we rejoice in one
whose name is--not BAILEY--but HILL. We did not want him, but got him
involuntarily, as thee might get the small-pox.

Doubtless he will make it more up-Hill work than ever with our taxes,
but, if he would only shoulder them and be off, what a blessing? For,
verily, it cannot be said, as of old, that a man "heapeth up riches, and
knoweth not who shall gather them."

But, perhaps, thee pays taxes also? If so, thee can affirm to the
gatherer, as well as thy friend,

PHINEAS BRODBRIMME.

_Philadelphia, 5th month, 9th day, 1870._

 * * * * *

OLD IRON.

Somebody talks of the Iron Men of Congress. Does he mean the Cast-iron
members or the Pig-iron members? For instance there are the rusty
Heavy-weights, and then there are the fellows who are greedy about
Tariff. Members of the scrap-iron and ten-penny nail order are, of
course, not alluded to. All these are iron men, but, as every body
knows, are not men of Iron. In view of its rusty legislati
on and
legislators, we recommend Congress to hang out a sign--"Highest prices
paid here for old iron."

 * * * * *

Bar That!

The Toronto _Globe_ is at present treating the Premier of the Dominion
to a course of lectures, advising him not to get drunk so often as he
does. Now this is too much to expect, since the gentleman referred to
has, by virtue of his official position, the run of the Bar.

 * * * * *

CONDENSED CONGRESS.

SENATE.

MR. MORRILL expressed his views upon what he is pleased, for MORRILL is
mirthful in his heavy way, to designate the reduction of taxes. He said
that we had been for some time in a state of peace, and our expenses
were not so large as they had been. Therefore he thought we might leave
direct taxation alone. To be sure he was not prepared to suggest any
specific reductions in direct taxation. But, doubtless, they would be
made some day or other. In the meantime let us pile on the tariff. This
was his notion of reducing taxation. Let the importers and the consumers
who don't like it--

 Learn how sublime a thing it is
 To suffer and be strong.

Then the Senate betook itself to considering an appropriation for
educating the colored infant. Mr. WILSON strongly approved it, not only
on account of the colored infant, for whose education he did not in a
general way feel any particular solicitude, inasmuch as the less
educated he was, the likelier he would be to give his voice and vote to
him, (Mr. WILSON,) and his like; but also because the appropriation
would provide for a number of the supernumerary female school-teachers
of Massachusetts, who had become a great trial to him, and particularly
to his colleague, Mr. SUMNER.

Mr. SUMNER said "that's school," and explained that he believed he was
venerated by the women of Massachusetts, but that their reverence for
him was too great to allow them to approach him with importunities.
Nevertheless, he was in favor of the bill, as tending to break down the
accursed spirit of caste, and to disseminate throughout the South the
three or more R's 
which he had so often had the honor of reverberating
throughout the Senate.

Mr. YATES approved of the bill. It was his general principle to vote for
any thing that looked to the disbursement of money. He was particularly
in favor of this measure, because he wanted an uniform education for
every body. He didn't want any body else to know more than himself, and
he didn't want to know more than any body else. (Voices--You don't.)
Take spelling. There was only one correct method of spelling--the one
that he pursued. And yet he had never found any other person who agreed
with him in it. Evidently, this was not right. He demanded that the
children of the country should be taught to spell on proper principles,
so that his works might be intelligible to posterity, as they were not
to his contemporaries.

Of course Mr. SUMNER seized the occasion to quote crowds of authorities
on education, which debilitated the Senate to a dissolution.

HOUSE.

Mr. LYNCH wanted to revive American commerce in behalf of the
ship-builders of Maine. If he were a judge, as a celebrated namesake of
his once was, he would do it by hanging a majority of members of the
House he had the honor of addressing. In default of that he wanted them
to legislate sensibly upon it.

Of course nobody paid any attention to the suggestion. The House did
itself credit by refusing one land-grab, out of a thousand or so
submitted.

Mr. BUTLER actually produced again his bill to annex San Domingo, and
refused to be comforted, because every body laughed.

Then came up the Tariff. COVODE said he supposed it would be admitted
that he had as little regard for the right and wrong of the thing as any
body. But this thing had really gone so far that any man with any regard
for his re-election must protest. Nobody but SCHENCK and KELLEY cared
about the tariff. Every body cared about the taxes.

SCHENCK could not regard COVODE with any other sentiment than disgust.
He wanted a duty upon foreign oysters. The oyster of Long Island and the
oyster of New-Jersey ought not to be 
trodden down by the pauper oysters
of Europe.

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

Personal advertisements having reference to the matrimonial exigencies
of divers widows, old maids, and bachelors, are not without their
influence upon the sympathies of the age. Particular attention has been
recently directed toward an announcement made in a Cleveland paper to
the effect that "Two widow ladies, strangers in Cleveland, wish to form
the acquaintance of a limited number of gentlemen with a view to happy
results. Please address in confidence,--."

One involuntarily regrets that a prospect thus bounded by an horizon of
"happy results" should have been confined to a "limited number of
gentlemen".

There is nothing so calculated to impair the usefulness of what purports
to be a purely benevolent enterprise, as its selfishness. If a widow, or
any number of widows, really possess the means of realizing "happy
results" with a "limited number of gentlemen," they should either remove
the limitation themselves, or make known the secret to those who would
be less sparing of the joys which it is capable of communicating. A
quack who peddles a valuable remedy upon which he may have stumbled, and
yet refuses to disclose its ingredients for the benefit of the whole
medical fraternity, violates the _esprit du corps_ of the profession,
and is by general consent deemed a fit person to be kicked out of it.
Therefore, if any widows or single ladies in Cleveland have knowledge of
any "happy results" which they advertise to share with a limited number
of gentlemen, we shall deem them unworthy of their sex, unless they
explain the process by which these results are attained, for the benefit
of those who are fast verging toward the autumnal stage of maidenhood.

 * * * * *

It may well be doubted whether the thought ever occurred to ADAM that
one day or other a hen would be charged with the care and custody of a
brood of goslings. The pastimes of Eden were perhaps not favorable to
vaticinations in the line of Natural History, but in the progress of
 the
world since those most primitive times, men have come to contemplate the
spectacle of that familiar barn-yard fowl made wretched by the aquatic
propensities of her supposed offspring, without a particle of
astonishment. The wicked and unfeeling even go so far as to seek
amusement in her misery. Her "ducklings" and other symptoms of maternal
agony at beholding the feathered darlings tempting the dangers of a
neighboring duck-pond, do not move their stony breasts. On the contrary,
they decidedly relish that sort of thing, and greet with positive
hilarity the efforts of some sympathizing rooster to cheer her. Fie,
upon such natures! If they must have an outlet for their ribaldry, let
them take PUNCHINELLO'S advice and select such instances as that
recently furnished in Sacramento, where a hen took charge of a nest of
kittens, and resolutely maintained it against the parent cat. Here the
case was different. The hen had become a trespasser. She had no business
with kittens. There was no hypothesis by which she could claim them as
her own. Kittens are not hereditary in the family of fowls, and she knew
it. It was an usurpation without any pretext of justification. What
would become of us if such a precedent could be extended to the genus
_Mammalia?_ Hundreds of rapacious old maids would be seizing all sorts
and all sizes of babies from agonized mothers, and asserting for
themselves the hallowed duties of maternity. Our infant days would have
been days of ceaseless motion. We should have been shuttle-cocked from
maiden to mother and from mother to maiden after a fashion calculated to
defeat the wise purposes of ipecac and paregoric, and to frighten our
natural curls into a state of painful perpendicularity. The mere
presentment of such a possibility, carries its refutation, and puts the
aggressions of this Sacramento hen in the category of outrages which all
society is banded to suppress. If you must laugh, O generation of
scoffers, make your jokes and gibes the instrument of protecting the
altars of all such felin
e households as may be thus assailed.

 * * * * *

Flag and Rag.

What is the difference between a railroad danger signal and a lost
pocket-handkerchief?

The one is a red flag, the other is a fled rag.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: SOCIAL SCIENCE.

_Lecturer._ "THERE IS A CUMULATIVE APPROXIMATIVENESS, SO TO SPEAK, A
PERIOD WHEN THE RECALCITRANT CORPUSCLES BEGIN TO "-------

_Stenographer._ "CON-FOUND THE FELLOW! I KNEW HE'D BREAK MY PENCIL WITH
HIS INFERNAL JAW-SMASHERS!"]

 * * * * *

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

[BY ATLANTIC CABLE.]

ROME.

Being uneasy about our agent's course at the Vatican, I have come over
to Rome to see about it. He is an Irishman, with a little of Father TOM
in him, and has got into a "controversy" with his Holiness about
infallibility. Our African bishop (otherwise PHELIM BURKE) insists that
PUNCHINELLO is infallible! The Pope says this is ridiculous! Father
PHELIM replies that "there are two that can play that same game." I
found them in the midst of this when ANTONELLI ushered me into the Papal
presence. PIUS was up on his feet, talking Latin like a crack student of
the Propaganda. PHELIM had his sleeves rolled up. ANTONELLI, with a
"_Pax vobiscum_" got the two contending powers quieted down; and, after
a proper salutation from me, we began our talk. His Holiness is not much
on English. Says he, "I speak vat-I-can English." Had he said _non
possumus_ to it, it would have been better. However, PHELIM translated
him; so we got on.

"Your Holiness enjoys, I hope, a good constitution?"

"The _constitutio de fide_ is, indeed, very good. Catholics must every
where subscribe to it."

"Dr. DOLLINGER, I trust, don't disturb your appetite?" "_Anathema
maranatha!_" which means (said PHELIM,) "Oh no, I never mention him."
Whereupon PHELIM, who had breakfasted on gin-and-milk, began to hum that
tune. I at once trod upon his toe, and he stopped.

"On the whole, what does your Holiness think of the prospect?"

"From this window, it is very fine. But I'm getting a little
dim-sighted.

"Don't you see that c
rowd of people coming up?"

"No I don't--it's only a herd of cattle from the Campagna."

"Take my glass. There, now; don't you see, I am right?"

"Yes," and the old man crossed himself, "It is so; I was mistaken."

"Thrue for you!" gobbled out PHELIM; "we've got to make a note of that!
PUNCHINELLO never made the likes of a mistake!"

"But, _what's in your glass?_ I see strange men there. GARIBALDI, and
MAZZINI, and HYACINTHE, STROSSMEYER, DOLLINGER, DUPANLOUP, and CUMMING,
all together! I see a troop of schoolmasters; a larger one of
newspaper-venders; and a whole army of _colporteurs_, each with a bag of
Bibles on his back! And, what do I see? They enter ST. PETER'S; they
leave the door wide open. Did I hear it? They are singing LUTHER'S
Hymn!"

The old man fell now into his seat, and I took the glass from him. "Only
one of his attacks," said ANTONELLI. "He is not quite so strong as he
was." "Thrue again," said PHELIM. With that sense of propriety for which
your representative has over been distinguished, I took PHELIM by the
arm and retired.

Poor Pius! He means well, and if we only had him for a while out West,
where I came from, we might make something sensible out of him yet. But,
when a man will live so far away from the Rocky Mountains as away over
here, what can be expected? We can't civilize the whole world at once.

Father PHELIM, by the way, is to be proposed as the new King of Spain.
His father's uncle's second cousin by the mother's side partook of a
good deal of BOURBON. That's reason enough, you know especially as they
only want a King LOG.

FRANCE.

Those infernal machines, so called, with--which the Emperor was supposed
to be about to be blown up, turn out to have been pewter plates. Out of
one of them the bottom had been cut, and the edges rolled up; and this
gave rise to a terrible suspicion. Two thousand people have been
arrested in consequence.

That _Press Ass_ has been at his blunders again. He telegraphed to me
that a conspiracy was afloat to enact a kind of petticoat government. He
meant 
to tell me some gossip about Madame PATTI-CAUX. Then he wanted me
to believe that the "smaller catechism" talked about at Rome was the
catechizing of SMALLEY of the Tribune, concerning GUSTAVE FLOURENS. That
man never will learn. PRIME.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | EXTRAORDINARY BARGAINS IN |
 | |
 | READY-MADE PARIS AND DOMESTIC SILK, POPLIN, BAREGE, MUSLIN, |
 | PIQUE, LINEN |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | LAWN DRESSES. |
 | |
 | Paris-Made Silk Sacks and Cosacks. Ladies' Embroidered |
 | Breakfast Jackets. |
 | |
 | A CHOICE VARIETY OF LADIES' UNDERWEAR, ETC. |
 | |
 | PARIS AND DOMESTIC MADE LADIES' HATS, BONNETS, FEATHERS, |
 | FLOWERS, TRIMMING RIBBONS, _Magnificent Sash Ribbons, Velvet |
 | Ribbons, etc., etc._ |
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co., |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | Fourth Ave., Ninth and Tenth Sts. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & CO. |
 | |
 | ARE OFFERING |
 | |
 | 100 pieces Plaid and Striped Spring |
 | |
 | SILKS. |
 | |
 | 100 pieces Grisaille Silks. |
 | |
 | ROUBAIX SILKS, HIGH LUSTER, ESPECIALLY |
 | ADAPTED TO SUMMER WEAR. |
 | |
 | FRESH GOODS, JUST RECEIVED. |
 | $1.50 and $1.75 per yard. |
 | |
 | A LARGE LOT OF JOB SILKS |
 | OF AN EXTRA QUALITY AND LUSTER, |
 | From $1 PER YARD UPWARD; |
 | |
 | LESS THAN HALF THEIR COST. |
 | |
 | PLAIN BLACK TAFFETAS, GROS GRAINS, |
 | FAILLE, etc., etc. |
 | |
 | At Greatly Reduced Prices. |
 | |
 | MOIRE ANTIQUE SILKS, WIDE, ONLY $3 PER YARD. |
 | |
 | PARIS CHAMBERY GAUZES, 70c. PER YARD, UPWARD. |
 | |
 | CREPES DE CHINE FOR DRESSES AND TRIMMINGS, |
 | ONLY $3.75 PER YARD. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Ave., 9th and 10th Sts. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & CO. |
 | |
 | ARE RECEIVING BY STEAMERS, etc., |
 | |
 | NEWEST AND LATEST DESIGNS IN |
 | |
 | MOQUETTES, AXMINSTERS, |
 | ROYAL WILTONS, |
 | BODY BRUSSELS, |
 | Crossley's Velvets, |
 | Tapestry Brussels, |
 | etc., etc. |

 | |
 | AND THEY HAVE OPENED THEIR LAST PARCEL |
 | |
 | OF |
 | |
 | ENGLISH BODY BRUSSELS, |
 | AT $2 PER YARD, |
 | |
 | ROYAL WILTONS, |
 | $2.50 AND $3 PER YARD, |
 | |
 | AXMINSTERS, |
 | $2.50 AND $4 PER YARD. |
 | |
 | To which they particularly request the attention of their |
 | customers and the public. |
 | |
 | HOUSEKEEPING GOODS IN EVERY VARIETY, |
 | AT VERY POPULAR PRICES. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | Fourth Avenue, Ninth and Tenth Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A.T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | HAVE REPLENISHED ALL THEIR POPULAR |
 | STOCK OF DRESS GOODS, AT 25c. PER YARD AND |
 | UPWARD. |
 | |
 | THE BEST IN QUALITY AND LOWEST IN |
 | PRICE YET OFFERED. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | Fourth Avenue, Ninth and Tenth Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | SPECIAL |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PREMIUMS. |
 | |
 | By special arrangement with |
 | |
 | L. PRANG & CO., |
 | |
 | we offer the following Elegant Premiums for new Subscribers |
 | to PUNCHINELLO: |
 | |
 | "Awakening." (A Litter of Puppies.) Half Chromo, size, |
 | 8-3/8 by 11-1/8, price $2.00, and a copy of PUNCHINELLO for |
 | one year, for $4.00. |
 | |
 | "Wild Roses." Chromo, 12-1/8 by 9, price $3.00, or any |
 | other $3.00 Chromo, and a copy of the paper for one year for |
 | $5.00. |
 | |
 | "The Baby in Trouble." Chromo, 13 by 16-1/4, price |
 | $6.00 or any other at $6.00, or any two Chromos at $3.00, |
 | and a copy of the paper for one year, for $6.00. |
 | |
 | "Sunset,--California Scenery," after A. Bierstadt, |
 | 18-1/8 by 12, price $10.00, or any other $10.00 Chromo, and |
 | a copy of the paper for one year for $10.00. Or the four |
 | Chromes, and four copies of the paper for one year in one |
 | order, for clubs of FOUR, for $23.00. |
 | |
 | We will send to any one a printed list of L. PRANG & CO.'S |
 | Chromos, from which a selection can be made, if the above is |
 | not satisfactory, and are prepared to make special ter
ms for |
 | clubs to any amount, and to agents. |
 | |
 | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received, |
 | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter in advance; |
 | the CHROMOS will be _mailed free_ on receipt of money. |
 | |
 | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank |
 | Checks on New-York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
 | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not |
 | otherwise ordered. |
 | |
 | Now is the time to subscribe, as these Premiums will be |
 | offered for a limited time only. On receipt of a |
 | postage-stamp we will send a copy of No. 1 to any one |
 | desiring to get up a club. |
 | |
 | |
 | Address |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. No. 83 Nassau Street, New-York. |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

[Illustration: "GREAT BARE-BACK PERFORMANCE BY THE STAR EQUESTRIENNE."

_Rural Old Lady_. "BARE-BACK, INDEED!--THAT'S NO WORD FOR IT, MY DEAR!"]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | "The Printing House of the United States." |
 | |
 | GEO. F. NESBITT & CO., |
 | |
 | General JOB PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | |
 | BLANK DOOR Manufactuars, |
 | STATIONERS Wholesale and Retail, |
 | LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers, |
 | CARD Manufactuars, |
 | ENVELOPE Manufactuars, |
 | FINE CUT and COLOR Printers. |
 | |
 | |
 | 163, 165, 167, and 169 PEARL ST., |
 | 73, 75, 77 and 79 PINE ST., New-York. |
 | |
 | ADVANTAGES: All on the same premises, and under immediate |
 | supervision of the proprietors. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank, |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW-YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents to Ten |
 | Thousand Dollars, will be received. |
 | |
 | Six Per Cent Interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the first of every month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, 
_President_. |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_. |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents_ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | SARATOGA "A" SPRING WATER. |
 | |
 | A POSITIVE CURE FOR HEADACHES A GREAT REMEDY FOR INDIGESTION |
 | AND DYSPEPSIA.--Keeps the blood cool and regulates the |
 | stomach. Persons subject to headache can insure themselves |
 | freedom from this malady by drinking it liberally in the |
 | morning before breakfast. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PRANG'S CHROMOS are celebrated for their close resemblance |
 | to oil paintings. Sold in all Art Stores throughout the |
 | world. |
 | |
 | PRANG'S LATEST CHROMOS: "Four Seasons" by J.M. Hart. |
 | Illustrated Catalogues sent free on receipt of stamp by L. |
 | PRANG & CO., Boston. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | PROSPECTUS OF |
 | |
 | POMEROY'S DEMOCRAT. |
 | |
 | FOR 1870 |
 | |
 | UNPARALLELED INDUCEMENTS FOR SUBSCRIBERS |
 | |
 | POMEROY'S DEMOCRAT for 1870 will be the best newspaper ever |
 | printed. It has now a larger circulation than ever |
 | before--the largest circulation of any political paper ever |
 | printed, and is now so firmly established it can not by any |
 | possible means fail. |
 | |
 | Mr. Pomeroy, Editor and Proprietor, will devote his entire |
 | time and attention to editorial and literary labor for THE |
 | DEMOCRAT alone, each week adding to the power, interest, |
 | worth, and variety of the reading matter it will contain. |
 | With the people to back him--abundant means of his own at |
 | his disposal, he is devoting his life to this paper, the |
 | people who support it, the cause it advocates, and the |
 | principles it defends, without fear, favor, or hope for |
 | reward. |
 | |
 | Read the terms and inducements! |
 | |
 | In addition to its political worth, THE DEMOCRAT will each |
 | week contain: |
 | |
 | Pomeroy's Saturday Night Chapters. Letters
 of |
 | Correspondence. Editorials on different topics. Pomeroy's |
 | Social Chat with Friends. Terrance McGrant's Letters. Full |
 | Market Produce, and Money Reports. A Splendid Masonic |
 | Department. Happenings Here and There. Brief Items of |
 | Satire, News, Sarcasm, and Burlesque. Discriptive Letters of |
 | Travels. Occasional "Pomeroy Pictures of New York Life." A |
 | First-Class Agricultural Department. |
 | |
 | In short, everything to make it the best and most readable |
 | paper in the United States. |
 | |
 | Politically it will be Democratic--red-hot and reliable |
 | earnest and continuous in its war against the bonded |
 | interest of the country, and determined in its labors for |
 | that earnest Democracy, which believes in the _restoration_ |
 | and not the _reconstruction_ of the Government. |
 | |
 | Thankful to those who, in every State of the Union, and |
 | almost every county of the United States, have so generously |
 | sustained THE DEMOCRAT before its removal to New-York, and |
 | since, we offer the following premiums--as an evidence of |
 | gratitude to those who forward from time to time |
 | subscribers: |
 | |
 | SINGLE COPIES, per year ... $2.50 |
 | |
 | TEN COPIES. one year to one post-office (we writing the |
 | names of subscribers on each paper), and one copy for the |
 | year to the one who sends us the club ... $20.00 |
 | |
 | TWENTY COPIES. one year to one post-office (we writing the |
 | names of subscribers on each paper), with an extra copy for |
 | the year, and a copy of each of Pomeroy's two books, |
 | "Sense," and "Nonsense," to the getter-up of the club ... |
 | $40.00 |
 | |
 | THIRTY COPIES. one year to one post-office (we writing the |
 | names of subscribers on each paper), with two extra copies |
 | for the year, and a copy of each of Pomeroy's two books, |
 | "Sense," and "Nonsense," and "Saturday Night," just |
 | published to the getter-up of the club ... $60.00 |
 | |
 | WILCOX AND GIBBS SEWING MACHINES AS PREMIUMS |
 | |
 | For fifty-six subscribe
rs, with $112, a $56 machine. |
 | |
 | For sixty subscribers, with $120, a $60 machine. |
 | |
 | For sixty-five subscribers, with $130, a $65 machine. |
 | |
 | For one-hundred subscribers, with $200, a $100 machine. |
 | |
 | |
 | IMPORTANT NOTICE |
 | |
 | If you can not conveniently raise subscribers enough to |
 | entitle you to a machine, as a premium, send what you can, |
 | with two dollars for each subscriber so sent, and the |
 | balance in cash for such priced machine as you so desire, |
 | when the paper and the machine will be sent as directed. |
 | |
 | For example, where thirty subscribers and $60 are sent, it |
 | will require $26 in cash in addition to the subscription |
 | money to purchase a $56 machine; or, for forty subscribers |
 | and $80, sixteen dollars additional will be required to |
 | purchase the same priced machine, and son in proportion. |
 | |
 | We offer these unrivalled machines, believing them to be the |
 | simplest, most durable, useful, and desirable sewing |
 | machines in the world, with a view to giving workingmen, or |
 | deserving woman a chance to obtain a machine for much less |
 | money than in any other possible way. |
 | |
 | There is hardly a township in the United States, but a |
 | person can, in a day or two, earn for himself a family |
 | machine, actually worth the price asked for it--the same as |
 | sold at, when purchased of Wilcox & Gibbs, the manufactures. |
 | |
 | In many cases a few gentlemen might, by sending their names |
 | to us as subscribers, receive for themselves THE DEMOCRAT |
 | each week, and a machine for some poor widow or other |
 | deserving woman, thus giving her the power to care for |
 | herself and family, and live independant. |
 | |
 | Each machine we send out will be _perfect_, and of the very |
 | best. |
 | |
 | Address all letters on business connected with the office to |
 | C.P. Sykes, Publisher, P.O. Box 5,217, New-York City. |
 | |
 | Letters on political matters should be addressed to M.M. |
 | Pomeroy, and if the writer
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | FOR |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO", |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent post-paid, |
 | on receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J.M. SPRAGUE |
 | |
 | Is the Authorized Agent of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For the |
 | |
 | New England States, |
 | |
 | To Procure Subscriptions, |
 | and to Employ Canvassers. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades, as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | Sole Agents for United States. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol. I. No. 18

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, JULY 30, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD,
By ORPHEUS C. KERR,
Continued in this Number.

[Sidenote: See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.]

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO". |
 | |
 | SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO |
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | ROOM NO. 4, |
 | |
 | No. 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A NEW AND MUCH-NEEDED BOOK. |
 | |
 | MATERNITY. |
 | |
 | A POPULAR TREATISE |
 | |
 | For Young Wives and Mothers. |
 | |
 | BY T.S. VERDI, A.M., M.D., OF WASHINGTON, D.C. |
 | |

 | |
 | DR. VERDI is a well-known and successful Homoeopathic |
 | Practitioner, of thorough scientific training and large |
 | experience. His book has arisen from a want felt in his own |
 | practice, as a Monitor to Young Wives, a Guide to Young |
 | Mothers, and an assistant to the family physician. It deals |
 | skilfully, sensibly, and delicately with the perplexities of |
 | early married life, as connected with the holy duties of |
 | Maternity, giving information which women must have, either |
 | in conversation with physicians, or from such a source as |
 | this--evidently the preferable mode of learning, for a |
 | delicate and sensitive woman. Plain and intelligible, but |
 | without offense to the most fastidious taste, the style of |
 | this book must commend it to careful perusal. It treats of |
 | the needs, dangers, and alleviations of the time of travail; |
 | and gives extended detailed instructions for the care and |
 | medical treatment of infants and children throughout all the |
 | perils of early life. |
 | |
 | As a Mother's Manual, it will have a large sale, and as a |
 | book of special and reliable information on very important |
 | topics, it will be heartily welcomed. |
 | |
 | Handsomely printed on laid paper: bevelled boards, extra |
 | English cloth, 12mo., 450 pages. Price $2.25. |
 | |
 | _For sale by all Booksellers, or will be sent post-paid on |
 | receipt of the price by_ |
 | |
 | J.B. FORD & CO., Publishers, |
 | 39 Park Row, New York. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | What it is Not. |
 | |
 | |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | The College Courant is NOT |
 | |
 |Merely a small student's sheet, But is the largest in N.E.|
 |Merely of interest to college men, But to every one, |
 |Merely a COLLEGE paper, But is a scientific paper,|
 |
Merely a local paper, But is cosmopolitan, |
 |Merely scientific and educational, But is literary, |
 |An experiment, But an established weekly |
 |Conducted by students, But by graduates, |
 |Stale and dry, But fresh and interesting |
 | |
 | It circulates in every College. |
 | It circulates in every Professional School. |
 | It circulates in every Preparatory School. |
 | It circulates in every State in the United States. |
 | It circulates in every civilized country. |
 | It circulates among all College men. |
 | It circulates among all Scientific men. |
 | It circulates among the educated everywhere. |
 | |
 | July 1st a new volume commences. |
 | July 1st 10,000 new subscribers wanted. |
 | July 1st excellent illustrations will appear. |
 | July 1st 10,000 specimen copies to be issued. |
 | July 1st is a good time to subscribe. |
 | July 1st or any time send stamp for a copy. |
 | |
 | TERMS: |
 | |
 |One year, in advance, - - - - - - - $4.00|
 |Single copies (for sale by all newsdealers), - - .10|
 | |
 | Address |
 | THE COLLEGE COURANT, |
 | New Haven, Conn. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS. |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAILROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, and July, an attractive and Saleable |
 | Work. |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING & CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALER. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for June, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSO
N |
 | |
 | Begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing |
 | Houses, can have the same forwarded by inclosing two |
 | Stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street. |
 | |
 | P.O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers, |
 | |
 | 208 Broadway, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. |
 | |
 | |
 | _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents to Ten Thousand |
 | Dollars will be received_. |
 | |
 | |
 | Six per Cent interest, Free of Government Tax |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_ |
 | |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_. |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents_. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Pres |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL |
 | MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | |
 | Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and |
 | 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | [P.O. Box 2845.] |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | DIBBLEEANIA |
 | |
 | AND |
 | |
 | Japonica Juice, |
 | |
 | FOR THE HAIR. |
 | |
 | The most effective Soothing and Stimulating Compounds |
 | ever offered to the public for the |
 | |
 | Removal of Scurf, Dandruff, &c. |
 | |
 | For consultation, apply at |
 | |
 | WILLIAM DIBBLEE'S, |
 | |
 | Ladies' Hair Dresser an
d Wig Maker. |
 | |
 | 854 BROADWAY, N.Y. City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | THE BEST AND CHEAPEST. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY. |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats C. Vibbard and |
 | Daniel Drew, commencing May 31, will leave |
 | Vestry st. Pier at 8.45, and Thirty-fourth st. at 9 a.m., |
 | landing at Yonkers, (Nyack, and Tarrytown |
 | by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, |
 | Bristol, Catskill, Hudson, and New-Baltimore. |
 | A special train of broad-gauge cars |
 | in connection with the day boats will leave on arrival |
 | at Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon |
 | Springs. Fare $4.25 from New York and for |
 | Cherry Valley. The Steamboat Seneca will transfer |
 | passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | ESTABLISHED 1866. |
 | JAS R. NICHOLS, M.D. WM. J. ROLFE. A.M. |
 | Editors |
 | |
 | |
 | Boston Journal of Chemistry. |
 | |
 | |
 | Devoted to the Science of |
 | HOME LIFE, |
 | The Arts, Agriculture, and Medicine. |
 | $1.00 Per Year. |
 | _Journal and Punchinello (without Premium)._ $4.00 |
 | |
 | |
 | SEND FOR SPECIMEN-COPY |
 | Address--JOURNAL OF CHEMISTRY, |
 | 150 CONGRESS STREET, BOSTON. |
 | |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by the
PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District
court of the Uni
ted States, for the Southern District of New York.

 * * * * *

THE
MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION,

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XII.

A NIGHT OF IT WITH MCLAUGHLIN.

Judge SWEENEY, with a certain supercilious consciousness that he is
figuring in a novel, and that it will not do for him to thwart the
eccentricities of mysterious fiction by any commonplace deference to the
mere meteorological weaknesses of ordinary human nature, does not allow
the fact that late December is a rather bleak and cold time of year to
deter him from taking daily airings in the neighborhood of the
Ritualistic churchyard. Since the inscription of his epitaph on his late
wife upon her monument therein, the churchyard is to him a kind of
ponderous work of imagination with marble leaves, to which he has
contributed the most brilliant chapter; and when he sees any stranger
hovering about a part of the outer railings from whence the inscription
may be read, it is with all the swelling pride of an author who, having
procured the publication of some dreary article in a magazine, is thrown
into an ecstacy of vanity if he sees but one person glance at that
number of the periodical on a news-stand.

Since his first meeting with Mr. BUMSTEAD, on the evening of the
epitaph-reading, Judge SWEENEY has cultivated that gentleman's
acquaintance, and been received at his lodgings several times with
considerable cordiality and lemon-tea. On such occasions, Mr. BUMSTEAD,
in his musical capacity, has sung so closely in Judge SWEENEY'S ear as
to tickle him, a wild and slightly incoherent Ritualistic stave, to the
effect that Saint PETER'S of Rome, with pontifical dome, would by ballot
Infallible be; but for making Call sure, and Election secure, Saint
Repeater's of Rum beats the See. With finger in ear to allay the
tickling sensation, JUDGE SWEENEY declares that this young man smelling
of cloves is a person of great intellectual attainments, and understands
the political genius of his country well enough to make an excellent
Judge of Election.

Walk
ing slowly near the churchyard on this particular freezing December
evening, with his hands behind his bank, and his eyes intent for any
envious husband who may be "with a rush retiring," monumentally
counselled, after reading the Epitaph, Judge SWEENEY suddenly comes upon
Father DEAN conversing with SMYTHE, the sexton, and Mr. BUMSTEAD. Bowing
to these three, who, like himself, seem to find real luxury in open-air
strolling on a bitter night in midwinter, he notices that his model, the
Ritual Rector, is wearing a new hat, like Cardinal's, only black, and is
immediately lost in wondering where he can obtain one like it short of
Rome.

"You look so much like an author, Mr. BUMSTEAD, in having no overcoat,
wearing your paper collar upside down, and carrying a pen behind your
ear," Father DEAN is saying, "that I can almost fancy you are about to
write a book about us. Well, Bumsteadville is just the place to furnish
a nice, dry, inoffensive domestic novel in the sedative vein."

After two or three ineffectual efforts to seize the end of it, which he
seems to think is an inch or two higher than its actual position, Mr.
BUMSTEAD finally withdraws from between his right ear and head a long
and neatly cut hollow straw.

"This is not a pen, Holy Father," he answers, after a momentary glance
of majestic severity at Mr. SMYTHE, who has laughed. "It is only a
simple instrument which I use, as a species of syphon, in certain
chemical experiments with sliced tropical fruit and glass-ware. In the
precipitation of lemon-slices into cut crystal, it is necessary for the
liquid medium to be exhausted gradually; and, after using this cylinder
of straw for the purpose about an hour ago, I must have placed it behind
my ear in a moment of absent-mindedness."

"Ah, I see," said Father DEAN, although he didn't. "But what is this,
Judge SWEENEY, respecting your introduction of MCLAUGHLIN to Mr.
BUMSTEAD, which I have heard about?"

"Why, your Reverence, I consider JOHN MCLAUGHLIN a Character," responds
the Judge, "and thought our young f
riend of the organ-loft might like to
study him."

"The truth is," explains Mr. BUMSTEAD, "that Judge SWEENEY put into my
head to do a few pauper graves with JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, some moonlight
night, for the mere oddity and dampness of the thing.--And I should
regret to believe," added Mr. BUMSTEAD, raising his voice as saw that
the judiciary was about to interrupt--"And I should really be loathe to
believe that Judge SWEENEY was not perfectly sober when he did so."

"Oh, yes--certainly--I remember--to be sure," exclaims the Judge, in
great haste; alarmed into speedy assent by the construction which he
perceives would be put upon a denial. "I remember it very distinctly. I
remember putting it into your head--by the tumblerful, if I remember
rightly."

"Profiting by your advice," continues Mr. BUMSTEAD, oblivious to the
last sentence, I am going out to-night, in search of the moist and
picturesque, with JOHN MCLAUGHLIN--"

"Who is here," says Father DEAN.

OLD MORTARITY, dinner-kettle in hand and more mortary than ever, indeed
seen approaching them with shuffling gait. Bowing to the Holy Father, he
is about to pass on, when Judge SWEENEY stops him with--

"You must be very careful with your friend, BUMSTEAD, this evening, JOHN
MCLAUGHLIN, and see that he don't fall and break his neck."

"Never you worry about Mr. BUMSTEAD, Judge," growls OLD MORTARITY. "He
can walk further off the perpendicklar without tumbling than any
gentleman I ever see."

"Of course I can, JOHN MCLAUGHLIN," says Mr. BUMSTEAD, checking another
unseemly laugh of Mr. SMYTHE'S with a dreadful frown. "I often practice
walking sideways, for the purpose of developing the muscles on that
side. The left side is always the weaker, and the hip a trifle lower, if
one does not counteract the difference by walking sideways
occasionally."

A great deal of unnecessary coughing, which follows this physiological
exposition, causes Mr. BUMSTEAD to breathe hard at them all for a
moment, and tread with great malignity upon Mr. SMYTHE'S nearest corn.

While yet the s
exton is groaning, OLD MORTARITY whispers to the
Ritualistic organist that he will be ready for him at the appointed hour
to-night, and shuffles away. After which Mr. BUMSTEAD, with the I hollow
straw sticking out fiercely from his ear, privately offers to see Father
DEAN home if he feels at all dizzy; and, being courteously refused,
retires down the turnpike toward his own lodgings with military
precision of step.

When night falls upon the earth like a drop of ink upon the word Sun,
and the stars glitter like the points of so many poised gold pens all
ready to write the softer word Moon above the blot, the organist of St.
Cow's sits in his own room, where his fire keeps-up a kind of aspenish
twilight, and executes upon his accordeon a series of wild and mutilated
airs. The moistened towel which he often wears when at home is turbaned
upon his head, causing him to present a somewhat Turkish appearance; and
as, when turning a particularly complicated corner in an air, it is his
artistic habit to hold his tongue between his teeth, twist his head in
sympathy with the elaborate fingering, and involuntarily lift one foot
higher and higher from the floor as some skittish note frantically
dodges to evade him, his general musical aspect at his own hearth is
that of a partially Oriental gentleman, agonizingly laboring to cast
from him some furious animal full of strange sounds. Thus engaging in
desperate single combat with what, for making a ferocious fight before
any recognizable tune can he rescued from it, is, perhaps, the most
exhausting instrument known to evening amateurs and maddened
neighborhoods, Mr. BUMSTEAD passes three athletic hours. At the end of
that time, after repeatedly tripping-up its exasperated organist over
wrong keys in the last bar, the accordeon finally relinquishes the
concluding note with a dismal whine of despair, and retires in complete
collapse to its customary place of waiting. Then the conquering
performer changes his towel for a hat which would look better if it had
not been so often worn
 in bed, places an antique black bottle in one
pocket of his coat and a few cloves in the other; hangs an unlighted
lantern before him by a cord passing about his neck, and, with his
umbrella under his arm, goes softly down stairs and out of the house.

Repairing to the marble-yard and home of OLD MORTARITY, which are on the
outskirts of Bumsteadville, he wanders through mortar-heaps, monuments
brought for repair, and piles of bricks, toward a whitewashed residence
of small demensions with a light at the window.

"JOHN McLAUGHLIN, ahoy!"

In response, the master of the mansion promptly opens the door, and it
is then perceptible that his basement, parlor, spare-bedroom and attic
are all on one floor, and that a couple of pigs are spending the season
with him. Showing his visitor into this ingeniously condensed
establishment, he induces the pigs to retire to a corner, and then dons
his hat.

"Are you ready, JOHN MCLAUGHLIN?"

"Please the pigs, I am, Mr. BUMSTEAD," answers MCLAUGHLIN, taking down
from a hook a lantern, which, like his companion's, he hangs from his
neck by a cord. "My spirits is equal to any number of ghosts to-night,
sir, if we meet 'em."

"Spirits!" ejaculates the Ritualistic organist, shifting his umbrella
for a moment while he hurriedly draws the antique bottle from his
pocket. "You're nervous to-night, J. MCLAUGHLIN, and need a little of
the venerable JAMES AKER'S West Indian Restorative.--I'll try it first
to make sure that I haven't mistaken the phial."

He rests the elongated orifice of the diaphanous flask upon his lips for
a brief interval of critical inspection, and then applies it
thoughtfully to the mouth of OLD MORTARITY.

"Some more! Some more!" pleads the aged MCLAUGHLIN, when the Jamaican
nervine is abruptly jerked from his lips.

"Silence! Com on," is the stern response of the other, who, as he moves
from the house, and restores the crystal antiquity to its proper pocket,
eats a few cloves by stealth. His manner plainly shows that he is
offended at the quantity the old man has mana
ged to swallow already.

Strange indeed is the ghastly expedition to the place of skulls, upon
which these two go thus by night. Not strange, perhaps, for Mr.
MCLAUGHLIN, whose very youth in New York, where he was an active
politician, found him a frequent nightly familiar of the Tombs; but
strange for the organist, who, although often grave in his manner,
sepulchral in his tones, and occasionally addicted to coughin', must be
curiously eccentric to wish to pass into concert that evening with the
dead heads.

Transfixed by his umbrella, which makes him look like a walking cross
between a pair of boots and a hat, Mr. BUMSTEAD leads the way athwart
the turnpike and several fields, until they have arrived at a low wall
skirting the foot of Gospeler's Gulch. Here they catch sight of the
Reverend OCTAVIUS SIMPSON and MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON walking together,
near the former's house, in the moonlight, and, instantaneously, Mr.
BUMSTEAD opens his umbrella over the head of OLD MORTARITY, and drags
him down beside himself under it behind the wall.

"Hallo! What's all this?" gasps Mr. MCLAUGHLIN, struggling affrightedly
in his suffocating cage of whalebone and alpaca. "What's this here old
lady's hoop-skirt doing on me?"

"Peace, wriggling dotard!" hisses BUMSTEAD, jamming the umbrella tighter
over him. "If they see us they'll want some of the West Indian
Restorative."

Mr. SIMPSON and MONTGOMERY have already heard a sound; for they pause
abruptly in their conversation, and the latter asks: "Could it have been
a ghost?"

"Ask it if it's a ghost," whispers the Gospeler, involuntarily crossing
himself.

"Are you there, Mr. G.?" quavers the raised voice of the young
Southerner, respectfully addressing the inquiry to the stone wall.

No answer.

"Well," mutters the Gospeler, "it couldn't have been a ghost, after all;
but I certainly thought I saw an umbrella. To conclude what I was
saying, then,--I have the confidence in you, Mr. MONTGOMERY, to believe
that you will attend the dinner of Reconciliation on Christmas eve, as
you hav
e promised."

"Depend on me, sir."

"I shall; and have become surety for your punctuality to that excellent
and unselfish healer of youthful wounds, Mr. BUMSTEAD."

More is said after this; but the speakers have strolled to the other
side of the Gospeler's house, and their words cannot be distinguished
Mr. BUMSTEAD closes his umbrella with such suddenness and violence as to
nearly pull off the head of MCLAUGHLIN; drives his own hat further upon
his nose with a sounding blow; takes several wild swallows from his
antique flask; eats two cloves, and chuckles hoarsely to himself for
some minutes. "Here, 'JOHN MCLAUGHLIN," he says, at last "try a little
more West Indian Restorative, and then we'll go and do a few skeletons."

(_To be Continued_.)

 * * * * *

What is Likely to be Raised some day, regarding the Pneumatic
Tunnel.

TUBAL. CAIN.

 * * * * *

[Illustration. PUNCHINELLO CORRESPONDENCE.]

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

In order to make this department of PUNCHINELLO as complete as possible,
we have secured the services of the most competent authorities in
literature, art, the sciences in general, history, biography, and the
vast vague unknown. The answers furnished by us to our correspondents
may therefore be relied upon as being strictly accurate.

 _Scales_.--How old was DANIEL LAMBERT at the time of his death?

_Answer_.--736 lbs.

 _Ignoramus_.--Why were the Roman _Saturnalia_ so called?

_Answer_.--The proper spelling of the word is _Sauternalia_. They were
wine feasts; and the vintage most in favor at them was Haut Sauterne.

 _Chasseur_. Is the antelope to be classed among the goat family?

_Answer_.--No. MOORE calls it a "deer gazelle."

 _Armiger_.--Is "arm's length" a recognized measure?

_Answer_.--Yes. It is a _Standard_ measure, as may be seen in the way
that journal is getting ahead of the _Sun_, which it keeps at arm's
length.

 _Molar_.--Yes; burnt Cork is an excellent dentifrice. It should not
 be applied to the teeth of children, however, as it is apt to impart an
 Irish accent, or, in extreme
 cases, even a <DW64> dialect.

 _Bookworm_.--Do two negatives always constitute an affirmative?

_Answer_.--That depends upon the price charged by the photographer.

 _Sunswick_--Is it true that JAMES FISK, Jr., has purchased Baden and
 another German Duchy?

_Answer_.--No: but he could have both if he wanted two.

 _Rockland_.--Who are the suffering persons represented in DORE'S
 remarkable picture of DANTE and VIRGIL visiting the frozen ward of the
 _Inferno_?

_Answer_.--The Knickerbocker Ice Company.

 _Solitaire_.--On what day did the Fourth of July fall in the year 1788?

_Answer_.--On the Fourth.

 _James Lobbs_.--How long ago is it since desiccated soup first came
 into use?

_Answer_.--At least as long ago as the days of CROMWELL, whose advice to
his troops was "Put your trust in Providence, and keep your chowder
dry."

 _Bach_.--Is the practice of divorce a mark of civilization?

_Answer_--It is. In the Gorilla family, (the nearest approach to the
human,) divorce is not practiced, but it is in Indiana, which is usually
considered to be a State of Civilization.

 * * * * *

PAT TO THE QUESTION.

Our law-makers in Congress--or rather law-cobblers, for few of them have
risen to the dignity of makers--are asked to repeal the _per cap_. duty
imposed by California on all Chinamen imported there.

The Californians have the authority of Congress itself, for this duty.
By reference to "HEYL'S Rates of Duties on Imports," page 36, art. 691,
under head of "Act of June 30, 1864, chap. 171," "An act to increase
Duties on Imports," etc., we find "on paddy one cent and a half per
pound." Now if a good-sized Irishman pays $2.25, why shouldn't a
"Celestial" pay as much in proportion to the weight of his _corpus_?

 * * * * *

Contradictory.

It appears that, by a joint resolution of Congress, the use of "that
first-class humbug and fraud, the whiskey meter," has been abolished.
Now there are dozens of members of Congress who are not only
"first-class humbugs and frauds," but whiskey meters, to whom whiskey is
both meat
 and drink, and yet who ever heard of their proposing to
abolish themselves?

 * * * * *

[Illustration: STAY-AT-HOME PEOPLE

FOLKS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GO TO NEWPORT OR LONG BRANCH, BUT THEY CAN
ALWAYS CREATE A LOCAL SENSATION BY TAKING A FOOT-BATH IN THE BACK-YARD.]

 * * * * *

MURPHY THE CONQUEROR

BY CORPORAL QUINN.

 Come tip us your fist, then, yer sowl you;
 Since iver I come from the wars
 The like wasn't heerd. Fill the bowl you
 Bowld sons of MILESIUS and MARS;
 And dhrink to ould Ireland the turfy
 That's shmilin' out there in the say,
 Wid three cheers for the conqueror MURPHY.
 Whoo! America's ours from to-day.

 Och! SAYZAR he walloped the Briton,
 The Tarthars leap't China's big wall,
 ALEXANDTHUR did half the wurld sit on,
 But niver touched Ireland at all.
 At Clontarf ould BOBU in the surf he
 Sint tumblin' the murdtherin' Danes--
 But, yer sowl, the brave conqueror MURPHY
 Takes the shine out of all of their panes.

 ULYSSES has made him Collecthor,
 (Sich choppin' o' heads ne'er was seen;)
 Sure the hayro will make me Inspecthor
 Whin there's so many "wigs on the green."
 And we'll be night-watchmen uproarious,
 Wid big badges on our coats,
 And we'll fight for TOM MURPHY the glorious,
 Wid our fists, our guns, and our votes.

 At the Custom House, Dutchman and Yankee
 Are thryin' to talk wid a brogue,
 They're all _Irish_, now--fat, lean, or lanky,
 And green are the neckties in vogue.
 They're thracin' themselves to some DURPHY,
 O'NEILL, or McCANN, or O'TAAFFE,
 I'll go bail the bowld conqueror MURPHY
 'S too owld to be caught wid sich chaff.

 Now Dutchmin may go to the divil,
 And Yankees to Plymouth's ould rock,
 We'll blast it, if they are not civil;
 While boys of the raal ould stock
 Will hurroo for ould Ireland the turfy.
 Whoo! Jibralthar is taken to-day,
 Our commandther's the conqueror MURPHY--
 Now a tiger and nine times hoorray!

 * * * * *

COMIC ZOOLOGY.

Genus Culex.--The American Mosquito

Few American birds are better known than the mosquito. In common with
the woodcock, sni
pe, and other winged succubi, it breeds in wet places,
yet is always dry. Like them it can sustain life on mud juleps, but
prefers "cluret." It is a familiar creature, seems to regard the human
family as its Blood relations, and is always ready to sucker them.

Being a bird of Nocturnal Habits, it is particularly attracted to human
beings in their Night-shirts. The swallow preys upon it, but it
generally eludes the Bat. Although it cannot be called Noctilucous, like
the lightning bug, it has no objection to alight in the darkness, and
you often knock till you cuss in your vain attempts to prevent its
taking a Shine to you.

The mosquito differs in most respects from all the larger varieties of
the winged tribes, and upon the whole takes after man more than any
other living thing. Nevertheless, it certainly bears a noticeable
resemblance to some of the feathered race. Like the Nightingale, it
"sings darkling," and like the woodpecker, is much addicted to tapping
the bark of Limbs and Trunks for the purpose of obtaining grub. It may
be mentioned as an amiable idiosyncracy of the mosquito, that it is fond
of babies. If there is a child in the house, it is sure to spot the
playful innocent; and by means of an ingenious contrivance combining the
principles of the gimlet and the air-pump, it soon relieves the little
human bud of its superfluous juices. It is, in fact, a born surgeon, a
Sangrado of the Air, and rivals that celebrated Spanish Leech in its
fondness for phlebotomy. Some infidels, who do not subscribe to the
doctrine that nothing was made in vain, consider it an unmitigated
nuisance, but the devout and thoughtful Christian recognizes it as
Nature's preventive of plethora, and as it alternately breathes a Vein
and a song, it may be said (though we never heard the remark,) to
combine the _utile_ with the _dulce_.

All the members of the genus are slender and graceful in their shape and
Gnatty in their general appearance. The common mosquito is remarkable
for its strong attachments. It follows man with more th
an canine
fidelity, and in some cases, the dog-like pertinacity of its affection
can only be restrained by Muslin. It is of a roving disposition, seldom
remaining settled long in one locality; and is Epicurean in its
tastes--always living, if possible, on the fat of the land. As the
mosquito produces no honey, mankind in general are not as sweet upon it
as they are upon that bigger hum-bug, the buzzy bee; yet it is so far
akin to the bee, that, wherever it forages, it produces something
closely resembling Hives.

Few varieties of game are hunted more industriously than this, yet such
is the fecundity of the species, that the Sportsman's Club has not as
yet thought it necessary to petition the legislature for its protection.

The New Jersey Mosquito is the largest known specimen of the genus,
except the Southern Gallinipper, which is only a few sizes smaller than
the Virginia Nightingale, and raises large speckles similar to those of
the Thrush. Ornithologists who wish to study the habits of the mosquito
in its undomesticated or nomad state, may find it in angry clouds on the
surface of the New Jersey salt marshes at this season, in company with
its teetering long-billed Congener, the Sandsnipe.

During the last month of summer it reigns supreme in the swamps west of
Hoboken, the August Emperor of all the Rushes, and persons of an
apoplectic turn, who wish to have their surplus blood determined to the
surface instead of to the head, will do well to seek the hygienic insect
there.

 * * * * *

An Apt Quotation.

The name "Louvre" has now been adopted by several places of
entertainment in New York and its suburbs. A Boston gentleman, who
visited seven of them a night or two since, under the escort of a
policeman, declares that, by a slight alteration of a line of MOORE's,
New York may be well described as--

"A place for Louvres, and for Louvres only."

 * * * * *

THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacations.

Mr. PUNCHINELLO puts up at the Atlantic Hotel when he goes to Cape May;
and if you were to ask him why, h
e would tell you that it was on account
of the admirable water-punches which JOHN McMAKIN serves up. To be sure
these mixtures do not agree with Mr. P., but he likes to see people
enjoying themselves, even if he can't do it himself. It is this
unselfish disposition, this love of his fellow-men, that enables him to
maintain that constant good humor so requisite to his calling. In fact,
though Mr. P. often says sharp things, he never gets angry. When, on
Thursday of last week, he was walking down the south side of Jackson
street, and a man asked him did he want to buy a bag, Mr. P. was not
enraged. He knew the man took him for a greenhorn, but then the man
himself was a Jerseyman. It is no shame to be a greenhorn to a
Jerseyman. Quite the reverse. Mr. P. would blush if he thought there
lived a "sand-Spaniard" who could not take advantage of him. So Mr. P.
bought the bag, and because it was made of very durable canvas, and
would last a great while, he paid a dollar for it.

He did not ask what it was for. He knew. It was to put Cape May Diamonds
in! He put the bag in his pocket and walked along the beach for three
miles. You can't walk more than three miles here, and if you hire a
carriage you will find that you can't ride less than that distance.
Which makes it bad, sometimes. However, when Mr. P. had finished his
three miles, he didn't want to go any further. He stopped, and gazing
carelessly around to see that no one noticed him, pulled out his canvas
bag and did shuffle a little in the sand with his feet. He might
find some diamonds, you know, just as likely as any of the hundreds of
other people, who, in other sequestered parts of the beach, were pulling
out other canvas bags, and shuffling in the sand with other feet. At
length Mr. P. shuffled himself into a very sequestered nook indeed, and
there he saw a man smoking. His melancholy little boy was sitting by his
side. Perceiving that it was only General GRANT, Mr. P. advanced with
his usual grace and suavity of manner.

"Why, Mr. President!" said he, "I thoug
ht you would be found at Long
Branch this season."

"Long--thunder!" ejaculated the General, his face as black as the ace of
spades, (which, by the way, is blue.) "I might go to Nova Zembla for a
quiet smoke, and some sneaking politician would crawl out from the ice
with a petition. I went fishing in Pennsylvania, and I found twenty of
those fellows to every trout. However, I don't mind you. Take a seat and
have a cigar."

[Illustration.]

Mr. P. took the seat, (which was nothing to brag of,) and a cigar,
(which would have been a great deal to brag of, if he had succeeded in
smoking it,) and, after a whiff or two, asked his companion how it was
that he came to send such a message to Congress about Cuba.

"What message?" said GRANT, absently.

Mr. P. explained.

"Oh," said GRANT, "that one! Didn't you like it? CALEB CUSHING wrote it
and brought it to me, and I signed it. If you had written one and
brought it to me, I would have signed that. 'Tisn't my fault if the
thing's wrong. What would you expect of a man?"

Mr. P. concluded that in this case it was ridiculous to expect anything
else, and so he changed the subject.

That afternoon Mr. P. bathed.

He went to SLOAN'S and fitted himself out in a bathing suit, and very
lovely he looked in it, when he emerged from the bathing house at
high tide. With a red tunic; green pants; and a very yellow hat, he
resembled a frog-legged Garibaldian, ready for the harvest.

When he hurried to the water's edge, he hesitated for a moment. The
roaring surf was so full of heads, legs, arms, back-hair, hats and feet,
that he feared there was no room for him. However, he espied a vacancy,
and plunged into the briny deep.

How delicious! How cool! How fresh! How salt! How splendid!

He struck out with his legs; he struck out with his arms; he dived with
his whole body. He skimmed beneath the green waters; he floated on the
rolling wave-tips; he trod water; he turned heels over head in the
emerald depths; and thus, gamboling like an Infant Triton, he passed out
beyond the breakers. It 
was very pleasant there. Being a little tired,
he found the change from the surging waves to the gentle chuck and flop
of the deep water, most delightful. Languidly, to rest himself, he threw
his arm over a rock just peeping above the water. But the rock gave a
start and a yawn.

It was a sleeping shark!

The startled fish opened his eyes to their roundest, and backed water.

So did Mr. P.

For an instant they gazed at each other in utter surprise. Then the
shark began slowly to sink. Mr. P. knew what that meant. The monster was
striving to get beneath him for the fatal snap!

Mr. P. sank with him!

With admirable presence of mind he kept exactly even with the fish.

[Illustration.]

At last they reached the bottom.

Mr. P. was nearly suffocated, but he determined that he would strangle
rather than rise first. The shark endeavored to crawl under him, but Mr.
P. clung to the bottom.

The fish then made a feint of rising, but, in an instant, Mr. P. had him
around the waist!

The affrighted shark darted to the surface, and Mr. P. inhaled at least
a gallon of fresh air. Never before had oxygen tasted so good!

On the surface the struggle was renewed, but Mr. P. always kept
undermost.

At last they rested from the contest, and lay panting on the surface of
the water, glaring at each other.

The shark, who was a master of _finesse_, swam out a little way, to
where the water was deeper, and then slowly sank, intending, if Mr. P.
followed him again to the bottom, to stay there long enough to drown the
unfortunate man. But Mr. P. knew a trick worth two of that.

_He didn't follow him at all_! He swam towards shore as fast as he
could, and when the shark looked around, to see if he was coming, he was
safe within the line of surf.

Need it be said that when he reached dry laud, Mr. P. became a hero with
the crowds who had witnessed this heroic struggle?

That evening, as Mr. P. sat upon the portico of his hotel, there came
unto him, in the moonlight, a maiden of the latest fashion.

"Sir," she softly murmured "are you the n
oble hero who overcame the
shark?"

Mr. P. looked up at her.

Her soft eyes were dimmed with irresponsible emotion.

"I am," said he.

The maiden stood motionless. Her whole frame was agitated by a secret
struggle.

At length she spoke.

"Is there a Mrs. P.?" she softly said.

Mr. P. arose. He grasped the back of his chair with trembling hand. His
manly form quivered with a secret struggle.

He looked upon her!

He gazed for a moment, with glowing, passionate eyes, upon that
matchless form--upon that angelic face, and then--he clasped his brows
in hopeless agony. Stepping back, he gave the maiden one glance of
wildest love, followed by another of bitterest despair; and sank
helpless into his chair.

[Illustration.]

The maiden leaned, pale and trembling, against a pillar; but hearing the
approach of intruders, she recovered herself with an effort.

"Farewell," she whispered. "I know! I know! There _is_ a Mrs. P.!"--and
she was gone.

Mr. P. arose and slipped out into the night, shaken by a secret
struggle. He laid upon the sand and kicked up his heels.

_There isn't any_ Mrs. P.!

Mr. P. does not wish to sweep his hand rudely o'er the tender chords of
any heart, but he wants it known that he is neither to be snapped up by
sharks in the sea, or by young women at watering places.

 * * * * *

A DOG'S TALE.

Dogmatic.

I am only a dog, I admit; but do you suppose dogs have no feeling? I
guess if you were kicked out of every door-way you ran into, and driven
away from every meat stand or grocery you happened to smell around, you
would think you had feelings.

When I see some dogs riding in carriages, looking so grandly out of the
windows, or others walking along proudly by the side of their owners, I
have a feeling of dislike for the very thought of liberty!

I sometimes go with the crowd to a lecture-room, and listen to the
speeches about freedom and liberty, the hatred of bondage, and all that
sort of thing. I get my tail up, and wish I could tell them what liberty
really is. There is nothing worse in the world tha
n this running around
loose, with no one to look after you, and no one for you to look after;
no one to notice you when you wag your tail, and to have no occasion for
so doing. You go out and you come in, and nobody cares. If you never
come back, no one troubles himself about you.

Every day I hear men reading in the papers about some lucky dogs having
strayed, or having been stolen, a large reward being offered for their
recovery: and I envy each lost dog! I wonder who would advertise for me
if I got lost! Alas! no one. They would not give me a bone to bring me
back, or to keep me from drowning myself. But every boy in the street
thinks he has a right to throw stones at me; and tie tin-kettles to my
tail; and chase me when I have had the good luck to find a bone; and to
set big dogs upon me to worry me when I am faint from hunger and haven't
much pluck; and worse than all, chase me and cry "Ki-yi," when I am
almost dying of thirst!

If you only knew how hard it is for a poor dog to make his way in the
world, with no one to help him to a mouthful of food, you would feel
sorry for us.

But I think we might get along better if it wasn't for the scarcity of
water. I hardly know a spot in the city where I can get a drink; and
many a time I have gone all day without a drop.

If I happen to hang out my tongue and droop my tail, my ears are saluted
with "Mad dog! Let's kill him!" You need not wonder I sometimes turn
round, and snap at my pursuers. I think you would snap, too, if you were
chased through street and lane and alley, till your blood was in a
perfect fever, and you hardly knew which way you were running! I have,
on many such occasions, actually run past a beautiful bone that lay
handy on the side-walk, and never stopped to smell it.

Oh! I wish some one would take me prisoner, and continue to own me, and
keep me in bondage as long as I lived! I should only be too happy to
give up my liberty, and settle down and be a respectable dog!

 * * * * *

A Bute-Iful Idea.

The Marquis of Bute denies that he is going t
o return to the Protestant
fold. With reference to the rumor, the Pope stated in the Ecumenical
Council that "the Bute was on the right leg at last, and that he would
launch his thunder against him who should dare that Bute displace."

 * * * * *

WHAT IS IT?

As the shades of night descend (in the neighborhood of Mecklenburg,
N.C.,) and harmless domestic animals begin to compose themselves to
sleep, suddenly the drowsy world is awakened by a roaring like that of a
lion! It proceeds from the forest, in whose bosky recesses (as the
Mecklenburgers suppose) some terrible creature proclaims his hunger and
his inclination to appease it with human flesh! All night long the
quaking denizens of that hamlet lie and listen to the roaring, which is
an effectual preventive of drowsiness, as the moment any one begins to
be seized with it he also begins to fancy he is about to be seized and
deglutinated by the horrid monster! Naturalists are positive it is not
the Gyascutis, but admit that a Megatherium may have lately awakened
from the magnetic sleep of ages, with the pangs of a mighty hunger
tearing his wasted viscera.

If our theory is correct, the good people of Mecklenburg (was it not in
Mecklenburg that the agitation for Independence began?) may be assured
that deliverance from this unreasonable Dragon is possible. We think it
more than likely that it is simply GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN practicing for
the next invasion of Great Britain. Nothing could be more harmless. One
Ku-Kluxian youth, armed with a double-barrelled shot-gun, four
bowie-knives, and a number of revolvers, could rout him instantly, and
even check the flow of his vociferous eloquence so suddenly as to put
him in imminent danger of asphyxia.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: RETRIBUTION.

THE BOYS OF SAN FRANCISCO, EXASPERATED AT THE CONVERSION OF THEIR DOGS
INTO PIE, TIE KETTLES TO THE TAILS OF THE CHINAMEN.]

 * * * * *

Giving the Cue.

"Is that one of your Chinese _belles_? asked Mr. PUNCHINELLO of Mr.
KOOPMAN-SCHOOP, as one of the newly-imported yallagals passe
d.

"Yes," replied Mr. K. "You can always tell a Chinese bell from a Chinese
gong by the bell-pull attached to it."

Mr. P. immediately presented his _chapeau_ to Mr. K.

 * * * * *

HINTS FOR--THOSE WHO WILL TAKE THEM.

Mr. PUNCHINELLO: Your invaluable "Hints for the Family," published some
time since, seem destined to work a revolution in our domestic economy;
as the plans you propose must win the admiration of housekeepers by
their extreme simplicity, aside from any other motives to their
adoption. I have myself tested several of your methods, and find that
you speak from thorough and circumstantial knowledge of your subject In
bread-making, for instance, we find that when the cat reposes in the
dough, it (the dough) will not rise, though the cat does. But in the
clock manufacture, we fear you have divulged one of the secrets of the
trade.

Your little invention for carrying a thread should be recommended to
students and other isolated beings, notwithstanding their unaccountable
propensity to pierce other substances than the cloth. They would find
driving the needle through much facilitated by a skilful use of the
table formerly described.

Permit me to make a few additional suggestions.

Get some worsted and a pair of needles; set up from twenty to forty
stitches, more or less, and knit till you are tired. When finished--(the
knitting)--draw out the needles and bite off the thread. You will thus
have made an elegant lamp-mat, of the same color as the worsted, and the
very thing for a Christmas present to your grandmother.

This is a very graceful employment, and a great favorite with ladies; in
fact, some ladies seem so infatuated with work of that kind, that,
according to the new theory of the Future, a fruition of fancy-work will
be amongst their other blissful realizations. And so, after surveying
Deacon QUIRK'S spiritual potato fields, or perhaps some fresh
(spiritual) manifestation of Miss PHELPS'S piety and intelligence, we
may have the pleasure of seeing the sun and moon hung with tidies, and a
lamp-ma
t under each star.

Take your rejected sketches and compositions, cut them in strips two or
three inches wide, and as long as the paper will permit. Fold these
strips lengthwise as narrow as possible, and smooth the edges down flat
with your finger. When finished, or perhaps before, you will find you
have made a bunch of excellent lamp-lighters.

Get a suit of clothes--broadcloth is the best--and a pair of boots to
stand them in. Button the coat, and insert in the neck any vegetable you
choose, so that it be large enough, (one of the drum-head species is the
best,) and finish with a hat You will then find, doubtless to your
surprise and delight, that you have a man, or an excellent
substitute for one, equal, if not superior to the genuine article,
warranted to be always pleased with his dinner, and never, necessarily,
in the way. Some people may object to its lack of intelligence, as
compared with the original, but careful investigation has shown that the
difference is very slight; yet, admitting even this to be a positive
fault, it is amply counterbalanced by negative merits. Your
correspondent who writes about "The Real Estate of Woman," will be
relieved to find that the threatened dearth in husbands can be so
readily obviated.

Very truly,

ANN O. BLUE.

 * * * * *

For Singers, Only.

What is the best wine for the voice?

Canary.

 * * * * *

A Chop-House Aphorism.

Customers who fee waiters may always be sure of their Feed.

 * * * * *

Washy.

The daily papers tell us that "Sixty-Eight Thousand persons visited the
public baths during last week."

They went in--a week lot--and came out sixty-eight thousand strong.

 * * * * *

Constructive Genius.

"A poor woman in Utica, who owns three houses and is building another,
sends her children into the streets daily to beg."

Quite right. While the youngsters beg in the streets, let the
enterprising old lady go on and begin another house.

 * * * * *

A Result of the Mongol.

Owing to the influx of Chinamen into this country, the edict against
allowing dogs to run 
at large during the Summer has been relaxed.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: BOMBASTES BONAPARTE:

NOW PERFORMING AT THE THEATRE FRANCAIS.

"He who would these Boots displace
Must meet BOMBASTES face to face."]

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE NEW PANDORA'S BOX.

REPRESENTATIVE MANUFACTURER, (_springing open Chinese surprise
box_.)--"THERE!--WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THAT LITTLE JOKER?"

KNIGHT OF ST. CRISPIN.--"PSHAW! THAT'S A MEAN TRICK: WAIT TILL I OPEN
_MY_ BOX!"]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN ON THE CHINESE.

He write a letter to the North Adams Shoe Manufacturer.--New Occupation
for the "Coming Man."

NSBORO, NYE ONTO VARMONT, _July the 11th_, 18-_Seventy_.

MISTER SAMPSON:

Selestial sir:--I take my goose quil in hand to rite you a letter. I
like your stile--you soot me. I myself have been an old Statesman,
having served my country for 4 years as Gustise of the Peece, raisin'
sed offis to a higher standard than usual, as well as raisin' an
interestin' family of eleven healthy children. Upon the linements of
their countenance the features and stamp of GREEN stands out in bold
relief. They are all genuine Green-bax.

A little cloud no bigger than a man's hand made its appearance over the
golden streets of San Francisco.

It is growin' bigger, and afore we know it, will be bigger than a white
elefant.

You have ceased the dilemer by the horn which hangs suspended from the
dilemer's head, like the tail of a kite.

While you have set the Chinees peggin' away puttin' bottoms on shoes, a
great many are peggin' away "putin' a head onto you."

In the present statis of things you want to blow up your nerve, and
stand as firm as the rox of Jiberalter, and like BYRON exclaim:

 "To be or not to be, there's the question;--
 Whether a man feels better to pay big wages for shoemakers,
 Or to suffer the slings and arrows of everybody,
 By hirin' Pig-tails for 1/2 price?"

Poleticians of the different churches don't endorse our Selestial
brother. But, sir, I'll venter a few dollars, that if the children of
the son--and dorter--leaned tow
ards either party, he would be gobled up
quicker'n scat, even if he come red hot from old LUCIFER, with a pocket
full of free passes, for the whole nashun, to the Infernal regions.

That's so. A vote's a vote, if it comes from Greenland's coral strand or
Afric's icy mountains. I feel a good deal towards you as a nabor of
mine, named JOE BELCHER, once did.

JOE likes his tod, and can punish as much gin and tansy as a New York
alderman can, when drinkin' at the sity's expense.

JOE went to camp meetin' last week, and, I am pained to say it, JOSEF
got drunker than a biled owl.

While one of the brethern was preachin', JOE sot on a pine log tryin' to
make out wether the preacher was a double-headed man, or whether 2 men
were holdin' forth.

"Who'll stand up for the carpenter's Son?" sed the preacher.

This made JOE look around.

The question was again repeated.

Again JOE looked around for an answer.

Again the preacher said: "Who'll stand up for Him?"

JOE by this time had got onto his feet, and was steadyin' himself by
holdin' onto a tree, while he sung out:

"I say (hic!) ole feller, Ile stand up (hic!) for him, or any 'orrer man
who hain't got any (hic!) more fren's than he has (hic!) in this 'ere
crowd."

I feel a good deal as JOE did. Anybody who hain't got any more frends
than you have, Mr. SAMPSON, has my sympathy.

For bringin' these _hily morril_ and _refined_ Monongohelians to
Massachusetts is a big feather in your cap, and you will receive your
reward bime-bye.

"The wages of sin is death."

But the wages of a Chinyman is money in a man's pocket. They work cheap.

I am trying to get the Chinese substituted for canal hosses.

A man here by the name of SNYDER, who runs a canal Hoss to our Co.,
talks of sendin' for a lot.

Won't they be bang up with their cues hitcht to a canal bote snakin' it
along at the rate of a mile inside of 2 hours. "G'lang! Tea leaf."

Then when they was restin' from their labors, by tyin' 2 of 'em together
by their cues, stand one opposite the other and hang close between 'em
to dry
, on washin' day.

What an aristocratic thing Chiny close-line posts would be. The only
drawback that I know of is, that the confounded posts mite some day walk
off with all the close.

But, sir, if they served me in that manner, I would cover the ground
with broken crockery by smashin' their old Chiny mugs for 'em.

Since you've awoken to _notorosity_, I have been studdyin' out your
family pedigree.

I find your Antsisters are connected with long hair more or less, same
as you be with Chiny pig-tails.

Old SAMPSON the first's strength, like your'n of to-day, lade in his
long hair.

He could cut off more heads, and slay more Fillistians with the jaw bone
of a member of Congress than the President of these U.S. can by makin' a
new deal in the Custom house department.

And, sir, I reckon about these days, we are getting rather more of that
same kind of jaw bone than is healthy.

I am afrade not.

Mrs. SAMPSON worked like a kag of apple sass in hot weather, to find out
where her old man's strength was. When she found out, what did she do?
Why, she got a pair of sheep shears and cropped him closer'n a state
prison bird, and tryin' to lift a house full of fokes, it fell onto him
and smashed him.

Like LOT'S wife, she'd orter been turned into a pillow of salt, and then
the pillow had orter been sewed up and cast into the sea.

Another of the SAMPSONS wouldn't even chop off MARIAR ANTERNETTE'S head
until her hair had been cut off, so he could peel her top-knot off slick
and cleen.

Lookin' back at these cheerful antsisters of your'n, it's no wonder you
go in for long haired labor. It runs in the SAMPSON blood.

The public is cussin' you from DANIEL to BEEBSHEBER, because you've
brought a lot of modern Philistines to Massachusetts.

Let 'em cus.

That's their lay.

Your'n is, to bild up a fortin, if Poor-houses for white laborers to
live in is thicker in North Adams than goose pimples on a fever and ager
sufferer's form.

As old Grandma SAMPSON cut off her old man's long hair, so she could
handle him in one of them littl
e fireside scrimmages which we married
fokes enjoy, so fokes would crop you, my hi toned old Joss stick.

But I've writ more'n I intended to. I would like to have you come and
make us a visit.

Bring along your wife, DELIAL. Tell her to bring her croshay work.

Mrs. GREEN is interestin' company among wimmen.

What MARIAR don't know about her nabors, don't happen.

Then her veel pot-pies and ingin puddins are just rats.

She can nock the spots off from any woman who wears a waterfall, gettin'
up a good square meal.

Anser soon, and don't forget to pay your own postige.

Hopin' you are sound on the goose and able to enjoy your _Swi lager und
Sweitzer_,

I am thine, old hoss,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

Lait Gustise of the Peece.

 * * * * *

TREATMENT FOR POTATO BUGS.

Mr. CLARK JOHNSON, of Pendleton, Indiana, not at all discouraged by the
signal failures of many previous campaigns against the Bug, has entered
the (potato) field with a new weapon, viz.: a mixture of Paris Green and
Ashes. Applied frequently, as a Top Dressing, this gentle stimulant
imparts a new energy to the vine, and also to the Bug, who thus becomes
so vigorous, and at the same time restless, that an uncontrollable
impulse seizes him to visit the home of his ancestors, (Colorado.) Here,
as is supposed by Mr. JOHNSON, the fictitious energy that had been
supplied by the Mixture deserts the immigrant, who now settles down
contentedly, nor ever roams again.

As (owing to the present facilities of freighting, etc.,) the Potatoes
of Pendleton may eventually find the New York market, which always
invites the superior esculent, we would like to suggest to Mr. JOHNSON
that this Mixture be administered to the Bug with a spoon, and not
sprinkled promiscuously on the ground. We have drank Tea with a "green
flavor," and found it comparatively innocuous; but Potatoes with a green
flavor, (especially if flavored by the JOHNSONIAN method,) we should
consider as doubtful, to say the least. It is the general impression
that there is nothing Green in Paris; but your hous
e painter knows there
is such a thing as Paris Green, and that it is the oxyde of copper.
Therefore, should one eat many of the potatoes nourished as above, we
should expect to see him gradually turning into a Bronze Statue--a fate
which, unless he were particularly Greeky and nice-looking, we should
wish to anticipate, if possible, in the interests of art.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: MR. SWACHENBACKER, OF THE AIRY 'UN SOCIETY, CREATES A
SENSATION AMONG THE LADY BATHERS AT "THE BRANCH," BY APPEARING AMONG
THEM AS A MERMAN, WITH A REAL LOOKING-GLASS AND A FALSE TAIL.]

 * * * * *

Fashionable Intelligence.

Two colors that once were fashionable in the Parisian _toilette_, viz.:
BISMARCK brown and Prussian blue, are now excluded from court circles,
by command of the Empress.

 * * * * *

Weather or No.

Most remarkable in the history of mathematics are the calculations
published by the weather-prophet of the _Express_. Arithmetic turns pale
when she glances at them, and, striking her multiplication table with
her algebraic knuckles, demands to know why the _Express_ does not add a
Cube-it to its THATCHER.

 * * * * *

Comparative Industry.

It is reported that "the journeymen lathers demand four dollars per
day." As a question of comparative soap, the latherers will in due time
strike too. The ultimatum will be-"Raise our pay or we drop the Razor."

 * * * * *

"Omnibus Hoc," etc.

What is the difference between theft in an omnibus and the second deal
at cards?

One is a Game of the Stage, and the other is a Stage of the Game.

 * * * * *

OUR AGRICULTURAL COLUMN.

Memorabilia of "What I Know About Farming."

Profound subjects should be well meditated upon. A man may write about
"New America," or "Spiritual Wives," or any such light and airy subject,
without possessing much knowledge, or indulging in much thought, but he
can't play such tricks upon Agriculture. She is very much like a donkey:
unless you are thoroughly acquainted with her playful ways, she will
upset you in a quagmire. Perhaps it is due to my reader
s that I should
say here that I have read a great many valuable treatises upon this
subject, among which may be named, "Cometh up as a Flour," "Anatomy of
Melon-cholly," "Sowing and Reaping," one thousand or two volumes of
Patent Office Reports, and three or four bushels of "Proverbial
Philosophy." I would also add, that I invariably remain awake on clear
nights, and think out the ideas set down in this column. Probably you
may not be able to find traces of all that labor here, but I assure you
that those books are more familiar to me than is my catechism. However,
anybody who thinks he knows more about vegetables than I do, can send me
a letter containing his information, and, if I don't cabbage it, I will
plant it carefully in the bottom of the waste paper basket. We now
proceed to consider.

PAR'S NIPS.

This vegetable always flourishes in a moist soil, though it generally
has a holy horror of _aqua pura_. Some of them are of an immense size; I
have seen them fill a tumbler. Producers, however, generally charge more
for the large ones than for the small. The size of the nip usually
depends upon the par. It may be that your par's nip is extremely small,
while JOHN SMITH'S par's nip is very large. Four fingers is, I believe,
considered to be the regulation size.

This vegetable is served up in a variety of forms. Some pars like it
with milk; in that case it is generally "hung up." In the winter it is
often called a sling or a punch; in the summer it is denominated a
cobbler or a jew-lip. Perhaps it would be well for those who love it, to
indulge in par's nip now, for some people say, that in the days of the
"coming man" there will be no par's nips. It must be admitted that the
father of a family, who indulges too freely in par's nip, is very likely
to run to seed, and to plant himself in such unfruitful places as the
gutter. If he be a young par, he may become a rake, and fork over his
money, and then ho! for the alms-house.

Numerous efforts have been made to suppress this vegetable, among which
may be reckoned
, "Father, dear Father, come home with me now," Brother
GOUGH'S circus, and the parades of the F.M.T.A.B. Societies. Maine and
Vermont Neal together in the front rank of its opponents. In Boston they
tried to suppress this vegetable, but, if you followed your par to a
store and heard him order a cracker, you could smell par's nip.

Among the mild varieties of this article may be mentioned benzine,
camphene and kerosene; the next strongest kind is called Jersey
lightning; but, if you desire par's nips in their most luxuriant form,
go to Water street and try the species known as "rot-gut."

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

Poetry is the exclusive birthright of no age of people. The dirtiest
Hindoo sings to his _fetish_ the songs of the Brahmin muse, with as keen
a relish as the most devout Christian does the hymns of Dr. WATTS.
Melody comes of Heaven, and is a gift vouchsafed to all generations, and
all kinds of men. In proof of this, let us adduce a single extract from
the great epic of the Hawaiian poet, POPPOOFI, entitled "Ka Nani E!"

 Ka nani e! ka nani e!
 Alohi puni no
 Mai luna, a mai lalo nei,
 A ma na mea a pau.

We would call the attention of our readers particularly to the sublime
sentiment of the second line. "Alohi puni no," sings the peerless
POPPOOFI, and where, in the pages of that other Oriental HOMER, the
Persian HAFI, can be found anything half so magnificent? There may be
critics bigoted enough to think that the last line destroys the effect
of the other three; but _we_ don't. PUNCHINELLO would much rather
discover the good in a thing at any time, than go a-fishing on Sundays.

It is not in the nature of a properly constituted human being to lay his
hand upon his heart and chant:

 "Ka nani e! Ka nani e!"

in the presence of his mother-in-law, without feeling that life is not
so miserable as some people would make it out. In the words of ALEXANDER
SELKIRK'S man FRIDAY: "_Palmam qui meruit ferat_."

 * * * * *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

Emmet is a name which has heretofore been associated in the public m
ind
with the <DW64> Minstrel business. Certain weird barbaric melodies, which
defy all laws of musical composition, but which haunt one like a dream
of a lonely night on some wild African river, are said to have been
written by "OLD EMMET." Is there any such person? Has any one actually
seen "OLD EMMET" in the flesh, and with--say a high hat and a cotton
umbrella? For my part I disbelieve in the popular theory of the origin
of these EMMETIC melodies which stir one so strangely. They are not the
work of any earthly song writer, but are born of some untuned Eolian
harp played upon by uncertain breezes, that murmur the memory of
tropical groves and sigh with the sadness of exile. There is no "OLD
EMMET." If there is, let him be brought forward--not to be chucked out
of the window, as Mrs. F.'s AUNT might suggest,--but to be thanked and
wondered at as an inchoate OFFENBACH, who might, under other
circumstances, have written an American opera-bouffe, or, better still,
as a possible CHOPIN, who might have written a second "March Funebre" as
hopeless and desolate and fascinating as that of the despairing and
poetic Pole. (I am coming to "FRITZ" in a moment, but I won't be hurried
by any one.)

As for JOSEPH K. EMMET, he is an undoubted reality. If you don't believe
it, go to WALLACK'S and see him. Somebody discovered this EMMET in the
Pastoral privacy of the Bowery. Mr. GAYLER was made to write a play for
him, and EMMET, the Bowery Minstrel, straightway became Mr. JOSEPH K.
EMMET, the renowned impersonator of "FRITZ." He plays "FRITZ" at
WALLACK'S every evening, and the entertainment is something of this
nature.

ACT I.--_Scene, the outside of Castle Garden. Enter baggage-smashers,
emigrant-runners, aldermen, and other criminals_.

RUNNER. "There's a ship a' comin' up. I'll lay for the Dutchmen."

BOBBIT. (_A concert-saloon manager_.) "There's a ship coming up. I'll
lay for the Dutch girls."

DISSOLUTE COLONEL. "There's a ship coming up. I want you two fellows to
look out for a Dutchman named "FRITZ," who is onboard. He
 takes care of
a girl, KATRINA, whom I adore. Carry off FRITZ and I'll carry off the
girl."

(_Various emigrants enter and are hustled off by the runners_. FRITZ
_and_ KATRINA _finally appear_.)

FRITZ. "Ja. Das ist gut. Ach himmel; zwei bier und Limburger."

(_The runners seize his trunk and carry it off. The_ DISSOLUTE COLONEL
_hurries_ KATRINA _into a coach and carries her off_. FRITZ _is carried
away by his emotions. Curtain_.)

ACT II.--_Scene, a boarding-house parlor. Enter_ DISSOLUTE COLONEL
and KATRINA.

DISSOLUTE COLONEL. "You are in my power. Be mine, and you shall have as
many bonnets and things as you can wish. Refuse, and I'll send every
reporter in the city to interview you."

KATRINA. "Base villain! I despise you. Let the torturers do their
worst."

(_Enter_ FRITZ, _disguised as a member of the Sorosis_.)

KATRINA. "You here! Be cautious. The hash is drugged. Save me, my
beloved."

FRITZ. "Ja. Das ist nicht gut. Herr Colonel, Ich bin KATRINA'S aunt. Ich
habe gekommen to take her away wid me, ye owdacious spalpeen."

DISSOLUTE COLONEL. "Glad to see you. Take some hash, madam?"

FRITZ. "Ja. Das ist gut. Take some yourself, you murtherin' thafe of the
worruld."

(_The_ DISSOLUTE COLONEL _forgets that the hash is drugged. He takes it
and falls insensible_. FRITZ _and_ KATRINA _escape. Scene changes to
Judge_ DOWLING'S _court-room_.)

FRITZ. (_Having left off his Sorosis disguise_.) "Ja. Das is nicht gut.
Behold, O wise young judge, the misguided person who put my trunk in his
pocket and ran away with it."

JUDGE. "Prove your case."

FRITZ. "Ja. Das ist gut. Begar! I proves him _toute de suite_--what you
call to wunst. You see those Limburger cheese in the villain's mouth. He
got them out of my trunk. So you see I have him ein thief geproven."

JUDGE. "Your case is proved. Let the prisoner be removed."

FRITZ. "Ja. Das ist sehr gut. Now I'm a gwine to de saloon, where dis
niggah has a ningagement for to sing."

(_Scene changes to a concert saloon_. FRITZ _enters and goes through an
entire programme of <
DW64> minstrelsy, to the wild delight of the
gallery. At last the lazy curtain slowly consents to fall_.)

ACT III.--The DISSOLUTE COLONEL _come to grief, and_ FRITZ _marries_
KATRINA. If you want to know all about it, go to the theatre. I don't
intend to ruin the establishment by giving the public the whole play for
the ridiculous sum which is charged for this copy of PUNCHINELLO. The
third act is the last of the play, and when the curtain fells, the
audience immediately proceeds to pick EMMET to pieces.

BOY IN THE GALLERY. "Ain't he just tip, though? I've seen him lots o'
times at TONY PASTOR'S, and I allers knowed he'd be a big thing if the
Bowery or thishyer theatre got a hold on him."

YOUNG LADY. "Isn't it frightfully low? The idea of Mr. WALLACK
permitting this <DW64> minstrelsy in his theatre. To be sure Mr. EMMET is
funny; but I hate to see people funny in this place."

OLD GENTLEMAN. "My dear! don't be absurd. Suppose Mr. EMMET has been a
minstrel, is that any proof that he can't be an actor? The young fellow
has his faults, but they will wear off in time, and he is brimful of
real talent. The play isn't a model of excellence, but it was made to
show EMMET'S strong points, and it answers its purpose. Shall we cry
down a talented and promising young actor simply because he has been a
minstrel, and now has the audacity to play at WALLACK'S? And besides,
haven't we seen pantomime, and legs, and LOTTA, and DAN BRYANT at
WALLACK'S? You never objected to any of the illegitimacies that have
preceded FRITZ;--why then should you begin now? Give EMMET and GAYLER a
chance. At any rate they can make you laugh, which is something that
BOUCICAULT with his '_Lost at Sea_' did not do."

MATADOR.

 * * * * *

A PARABLE ABOUT THE TWELFTH OF JULY.

In a far distant land, beyond the sea, there dwelt an Orange Lily.
Separated from it by a very absurd and useless ditch, a Green Shamrock
spread its trefoil leafage to the sun, and grew greener every day. Now,
in course of time, a very ill feeling sprang up between the Lily an
d the
Shamrock, on account of color, the former despising the latter because
it was green, and the latter hating the former because it was orange--as
if both colors hadn't lived together in the rainbow ever since the
aquatic excursion of old Mr. NOAH, without ever falling out of it or
with each other. In time they both crossed the sea, and took root in a
far-away land, where they became acquainted with a very remarkable
animal called the American Beaver.

The industry of this creature urged the Lily to toil and spin, contrary
to its usual habits, while the Shamrock converted its trifoliated leaves
into shovels, and took a contract for excavating the hemisphere. And so
they might have jogged on very well together, but for their stupid way
of showing their colors when there was no occasion for it. This greatly
disgusted their friend, the American Beaver, who didn't care a pinch of
snuff about color, (black is not a color, you know,) but who went in for
faithful and persistent work. One beautiful Twelfth of July, the Lily
arose very early in the morning, and, shaking out her orange leaves,
defied the Shamrock to "come on." The Shamrock came on. There was a
vegetable howl, and clash, and clangor in the air, and the Lily, having
knocked off several of the Shamrocks' greenest leaves, went to its
friend, the American Beaver, for comfort and support. But the American
Beaver, instead of countenancing the Lily, said: "Look here, Lily, I
guess you are about the greatest fool I ever _did_ see, except, perhaps,
the Shamrock. As long as you two stick to your work, instead of sticking
out your colors and sticking your knives into each other, I am very glad
to have you for neighbors, but now that you have shown yourselves to be
jack-asses instead of vegetables, I would not give an American Beaver
dam for the two of you."

 * * * * *

CONDENSED CONGRESS.

SENATE.

A pleasant philosopher tells us that blessings brighten as they take
their flight. The flight of Congress may be regarded as a blessing. But
Congressmen do not brighten
. PUNCHINELLO listens in vain for the swan
song of SUMNER, and looks longingly, without being gratified by the
spectacle of the oratorical funeral pyre of NYE. Almost the only gleam
of humor he discerns in his weekly wading through the watery and windy
wastes of the Congressional Globe is a comic coruscation by Mr. CAMERON.

Mr. McCREERY had had the abominable impudence to introduce
a bill relieving the disabilities of a few friends of his in Kentucky.
Mr. CAMERON objected upon the ground that one of these persons was named
SMITH, and used to be a New York Street Commissioner. Any man who had
been a New York Street Commissioner ought to be hanged as soon as any
decent pretext could be found for hanging him. (Murmurs of approbation
from the New York reporters.) Still this was not his main objection to
SMITH. The SMITH family had furnished more aid and comfort to the rebel
army than any other family in the South. No SMITH should, with his
consent, be permitted to participate in the conduct of a Government
which so many SMITHS had conspired to overthrow. Moreover, this was an
incorrigible SMITH. It was an undisputed fact that SMITH had given up a
lucrative office to follow his political convictions. Such a man could
not be viewed by Senators with any other feelings than those of horror
and disgust. Let them reflect what would be the effect of polluting this
body, as by this bill it was proposed to make it possible to do, with a
man so dead to all the common feelings of our nature that he would set
up his own conceits against the practice of his fellow-Senators, and the
rewards of a grateful country. This settled the fate of SMITH, but the
rest of Mr. McCREERY's friends, being obscure persons, were let in, in
spite of the "barbaric yaup" of DRAKE, who said that the next thing
would be a proposition to enact a similar outrage in Missouri, and
thereby abet the efforts of the bold bad men who were trying to get him
out of his seat.

HOUSE.

SCHENCK insisted upon the Tariff. He had been visited by
delegations from the gr
eat heart of the nation, who assured him that the
great heart of the nation yearned for an immediate increase of the duty
on various articles which competed with the articles manufactured by the
members of the delegation. No longer ago than yesterday a manufacturer
of double-back-action jack-planes had assured him that the
single-forward-action jack-planes poured upon our shores by the pauper
labor of Europe, were, so to speak, shaving off the edge of the national
life. A gentleman whose name was known to the uttermost parts of the
civilized world, who had shed new lustre upon the American name by the
great boon he had bestowed upon mankind in the American self-filling
rotary Bird of Freedom inkstand with revolving lid, had said, with the
tears of patriotic shame and sorrow in his eyes, that there were
recreant writers who preferred to purchase the Birmingham inkstand,
which required to be filled, did not rotate, and had no revolution to
its lid, at fifty cents, than to secure his own triumph of American
ingenuity at ten dollars. Such misguided men must be taught their duty
to their native land. Mr. SCHENCK moved an increase to 4,000 per cent,
_ad valorem_ on the foreign jack-plane, which he characterized as a Tool
of Tyranny, and the Birmingham inkstand. The thing was done.

Mr. DAWES said he was disgusted. Everybody's jobs were put through
except his. He threatened to go home and tell his constituents.

Mr. PETERS suggested that Mr. DAWES had better go out and take "suthin'
soothin'." (Mr. PETERS is from Maine, and his remark will probably be
understood there.) If he might be pardoned the liberty he would
recommend a little ice in it.

Mr. DAWES said he could do his own drinking. As for PETERS, he scorned
him. Moreover, PETERS was one-eyed.

Mr. PETERS appealed to his record to show that he had two eyes. He did
not understand the anger of Mr. DAWES. Of course when he suggested a
drink, he assumed the responsibility of paying for it.

Mr. DAWES said that altered the case entirely. He took pleasure in
withdrawing
 his hasty remarks, and in assuring the House that he
profoundly venerated PETERS, and that PETERS had two perfect eyes of
unusual expressiveness.

Mr. BINGHAM called attention to the case of Mr. PORTER, who had been
smitten on the nose by a vile creature whom he declined to drink with.
This was a blow at the national life, and he thought the punishment of
treason was imperatively demanded.

Mr. BUTLER said he had been kicked once. He assured the House that the
sensation was repugnant to his feelings as a man--much more as a
Congressman. He moved to amend by substituting slow torture.

It was finally resolved to put the wretch in irons and feed him on bread
and water.

 * * * * *

A Drowsy Con.

When a man is sleepy, what sort of transformation does he desire?

He wishes he were a-bed.

 * * * * *

 An Anecdote of the good old Square Kind.

MRS. PRINGLEWOOD, having been afflicted with a chimney that smoked, sent
for a chimney-doctor to cure it.

When the cure had been thoroughly effected, says Mrs. PRINGLEWOOD to the
chimney-doctor: "My son, a boy of but fourteen, smokes awful; couldn't
you cure him as you did the chimney?"

"No I couldn't, marm," returned the chimney-doctor, who was a wag: "but
I see what you're arter, marm--you want me to teach him to draw!"

 * * * * *

O Deer, Deer!

_Trichinoe_ are said to have been discovered in the flesh of Oregon
deer. If this should prove true, Oregon venison must be anything but a
benison; but it is more than likely that the report originated in the
fact that there is in the East Indies a species of the cervine family
known as the Hog deer.

 * * * * *

Scientific Intelligence.

We learn from exchanges that in Missouri, where the wages of
working-people average five dollars _per diem_, that the Legislature
have decreed a Mining Bureau, and a Geological Survey of the State--the
remuneration of the assistant geologists to be at the rate of $1.50 _per
diem_. Why should these learned geologists waste their time for a
compensation so mean? Let them rather convert their surve
ying-staffs
into ox-goads, and turn their attention to Gee-haw-logy,--'twill pay
better than t'other thing.

 * * * * *

Men and Manners

The following paragraph, cut from a newspaper, suggests a good deal:

"A Hindoo cabby, before mounting the box and taking the reins, always
first prays that his driving may be to the glory of his God."

Now this is precisely what the New York hackman invariably does before
he gathers up the reins and urges on his "galled jades." He curses his
horses, his passengers, and his own eyes, and thus commends his driving
to the glory of _his_ God, whose other name is LUCIFER.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Stewart & Co. |
 | Are offering |
 | |
 | A SPLENDID ASSORTMENT |
 | OF THE |
 | LATEST PARIS NOVELTIES. |
 | IN |
 | |
 | ROMAN. ECOSSAIS, CARREAUX. |
 | BROCHE, CHINE, GROS |
 | GRAIN AND TAFFETA |
 | |
 | SASH RIBBONS, |
 | IN THE MOST DESIRABLE WIDTHS AND |
 | SHADES OF COLOR. Also, |
 | |
 | Velvet Ribbons, Trimming Ribbons, |
 | Neckties, &c., &c. |
 | |
 | _Great Inducements to Purchasers_. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART & Co. |
 | |
 | Are Offering |
 | |
 | Extraordinary Bargains |
 | IN |
 | LADIES' PARIS AND DOMESTIC READY-MADE |
 | Silk, Grenadine, Swiss Muslin, |
 | Victoria Lawn, Linen |
 | and Pique |
 | |
 | Suits, Robes, and Dresses, |
 | |
 | Children's Linen and Pique Garments, |
 | In the Greatest Variety, |
 | |
 | Embroidered Collars, CUFFS, LACES, |
 | Real LAMA LACE POINTS, |
 | DRESSES &c., &c. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. Steward & Co. |
 | |
 | Are closing out their stock of |
 | FRENCH, ENGLISH, AND DOMESTIC |
 | CARPETS, |
 | |
 | Oil Cloths, Rugs, Mats, Cocoa and Canton |
 | Mattings, &c., &c., |
 | |
 | At a Great REDUCTION IN PRICES. |
 | |
 | _Customers and S
trangers are Respectfully_ |
 | |
 | INVITED TO EXAMINE, |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A. T. STEWART &CO. |
 | |
 | Offer the following |
 | |
 | Extraordinary Inducements |
 | |
 | IN PRICES TO PURCHASERS, |
 | |
 | In order to close the following portion of their Stock: |
 | |
 | Striped Checks, & Broche Poplinettes, |
 | Only 50 cts. per Yard. |
 | |
 | Heavy Black and White Check Silks, |
 | 75 cts. per Yard, value $1.50. |
 | |
 | Real Gaze de Chambrey, |
 | 75 cts. per Yard, formerly $2. |
 | |
 | Striped Mongoline Silks (a Beautiful |
 | Article for Costumes), |
 | $1 per Yard, formerly $2 |
 | |
 | A LARGE QUANTITY OF |
 | |
 | STRIPED & CHECKED SILKS, |
 | |
 | This Season's Importation, $1 per Yard. |
 | A great Variety of the |
 | |
 | NEW ROUBAIX SILKS, 56 INCHES WIDE, $1.25 |
 | per Yard. |
 | |
 | RICH CHANGEABLE SILKS, Light Colors, 24 Inches |
 | Wide, $1.75. |
 | |
 | EXTRA HEAVY PONGE SILKS, ONLY $1.60 per |
 | Yard, formerly $2.50. |
 | |
 | A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF |
 | |
 | Plain POULTS DE SOIES, TAFFETTAS, |
 | FAILLES, &c., &c., |
 | |
 | Choice Shades of Color. |
 | |
 | _AN IMMENSE STOCK OF_ |
 | |
 | BLACK SILKS, |
 | |
 | At Prices Lower Than Ever. |
 | |
 | BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | 4th Ave., 9th and 10th Sts. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

PUNCHINELLO.

The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical Weekly Paper
was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The Press and the Public in
every State and Territory of the Union endorse it as the best paper of
the kind ever published in America.

CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL.

Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,) ............... $4.00

 " " six months, (without premium,) ............................ 2.00

 " " three months, " ............................ 1.00

Single copies mailed free, for .............................. .10

We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and PG Distributed Proofreaders

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | CONANT'S |
 | |
 | PATENT BINDERS |
 | |
 | for |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent postpaid, on |
 | receipt of One Dollar, by |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street, New York City. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. M. SPRAGUE |
 | |
 | Is the Authorized Agent of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For the |
 | |
 | New England States, |
 | |
 | To Procure Subscriptions, and to Employ |
 | |
 | Canvassers. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S |
 | |
 | STEEL PENS. |
 | |
 | These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and |
 | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention |
 | is called to the following grades, as being better suited |
 | for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The |
 | |
 | "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive," |
 | we recommend for Bank and Office use. |
 | |
 | D. APPLETON & CO., |
 | |
 | Sole Agents for United States |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Vol. 1. No. 21.

PUNCHINELLO

SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 1870.

PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,

83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD, By ORPHEUS C. KERR,
Continued in this Number.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | Should be addressed to |
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | Room No. 4 |
 | |
 | No. 93 Nassau Street |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | CHARLES C. CHATFIELD & CO., |
 | |
 | New Haven, Conn., |
 | |
 | Have Just Published |
 | |
 | "THE AMERICAN COLLEGES AND |
 | THE AMERICAN PUBLIC," |
 | |
 | BY |
 | |
 | PROF. NOAH PORTER, D.D., OF YALE COLLEGE. |
 | |
 
| |
 | OPINIONS OF THE BOOK. |
 | |
 | "I have read it with very deep interest."--PRESIDENT McCOSH, |
 | PRINCETON. |
 | |
 | "An excellent and valuable work."--PRESIDENT CUMMINGS, |
 | WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY. |
 | |
 | "Able and just presentations of our colleges to the |
 | public."--PRESIDENT ANDERSON, ROCHESTER UNIVERSITY. |
 | |
 | "The discussion is not only very reasonable, but thorough, |
 | comprehensive and wise."--PRESIDENT BROWN, HAMILTON COLLEGE. |
 | |
 | "An able and scholarly review of the system of instruction |
 | pursued in our American Colleges."--PROF. FRANCIS BOWEN, |
 | HARVARD. |
 | |
 | "Unique, profound, discriminating."--PROF. L. H. ATWATER, |
 | PRINCETON. |
 | |
 | "The best book ever published on this subject of collegiate |
 | education."--SPRINGFIELD REPUBLICAN. |
 | |
 | The book contains 285 pages, is printed on a fine quality of |
 | tinted paper, is handsomely bound, and is sold by all |
 | booksellers for $1.50, and sent for the same (postage paid) |
 | to any address, by the publishers. |
 | |
 | |
 | NEW COLLECTION OF YALE SONGS. |
 | |
 | Just Published. |
 | |
 | SONGS OF YALE.--A new Collection of the Songs of Yale, with |
 | Music. Edited by CHARLES S. ELLIOT, Class of 1867.--16mo, |
 | 126 pages. Price in extra cloth, $1.00; in super extra |
 | cloth, beveled boards, tinted paper, gilt edges, $1.50 |
 | |
 | |
 | |
 | UNIVERSITY SERIES. |
 | |
 | _Educational and Scientific Lectures, Addresses and Essays, |
 | brought out in neat pamphlet form, of uniform style and |
 | price._ |
 | |
 | I.--"ON THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE." By Prof. T. H. HUXLEY, |
 | LL. D., F. R. S. With an Introduction by a Professor in Yale |
 | College. 12mo, pp. 36. Price 25 cents. |
 | |
 | The interest of Americans in this lecture by Professor |
 | HUXLEY can be judged from the great demand for it; the fifth |
 | thousand is now being sold. |
 | |
 | II.--THE CORRELATION OF VITAL AND PHYSICAL FORCES. By Prof. |
 | GEORGE F. BARKER, M.D., of Yale College. A Lecture delivered |
 | before Am. Inst., N
. Y. Pp. 36. Price 25 cts. |
 | |
 | "Though this is a question of cold science, the author |
 | handles it with ability, and invests it with interest. A |
 | series of notes appended is valuable as a reference to works |
 | quoted."-PROV. (R.I.) PRESS. |
 | |
 | III.--AS REGARDS PROTOPLASM, in Relation to Prof. HUXLEY'S |
 | Physical Basis of Life. By J. HUTCHINSON STIRLING, F. R. C. |
 | S. Pp. 72. Price 25 cents. |
 | |
 | By far the ablest reply to Prof. HUXLEY which has been |
 | written. |
 | |
 | Other valuable Lectures and Essays will soon be published in |
 | this series. Address: |
 | |
 | CHARLES C. CHATFIELD & CO., |
 | |
 | No. 460 Chapel Street, New Haven, Conn., |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | J. NICKINSON |
 | |
 | begs to announce to the friends of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO," |
 | |
 | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
 | made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of |
 | |
 | ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED, |
 | |
 | the same will be forwarded, postage paid. |
 | |
 | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing Houses, |
 | can have the same forwarded by inclosing two stamps. |
 | |
 | OFFICE OF |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street |
 | |
 | P. O. Box 2783. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | TO NEWS-DEALERS. |
 | |
 | Punchinello's Monthly. |
 | |
 | The Weekly Numbers for July, |
 | |
 | Bound in a Handsome Cover, |
 | |
 | Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents. |
 | |
 | THE TRADE |
 | |
 | Supplied by the |
 | |
 | AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, |
 | |
 | Who are now prepared to receive Orders. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | WEVILL & HAMMAR, |
 | |
 | Wood Engravers |
 | |
 | 208 Broadway |
 | |
 | NEW YORK |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | Bowling Green Savings-Bank |
 | |
 | 33 BROADWAY, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 | Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 
3 P.M. |
 | |
 | |
 | Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents |
 | to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received. |
 | |
 | |
 | Six per Cent Interest, |
 | Free of Government Tax. |
 | |
 | INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS |
 | |
 | Commences on the First of every Month. |
 | |
 | HENRY SMITH, _President_ |
 | REEVES E. SELMES, _Secretary_ |
 | |
 | WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents._ |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | NEWS DEALERS |
 | |
 | ON |
 | |
 | RAILROADS, |
 | |
 | STEAMBOATS, |
 | |
 | And at |
 | |
 | WATERING PLACES, |
 | |
 | Will find the Monthly Numbers of |
 | |
 | "PUNCHINELLO" |
 | |
 | For April, May, June, and July, an attractive and |
 | Saleable Work. |
 | |
 | Single Copies Price 50 cts. |
 | |
 | For trade price address American News Co., or |
 | |
 | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO., |
 | |
 | 83 Nassau Street |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FORST & AVERELL |
 | |
 | Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press |
 | |
 | PRINTERS, |
 | |
 | EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL MANUFACTURERS. |
 | |
 | sketches and Estimates furnished upon application. |
 | |
 | P. O. Box 2845 |
 | |
 | 23 Platt Street, and 20-22 Gold Street, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | FOLEY'S |
 | |
 | GOLD PENS. |
 | |
 | The Best and Cheapest. |
 | |
 | 256 BROADWAY. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | $2 to ALBANY and TROY. |
 | |
 | The Day Line Steamboats C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew, |
 | commencing May 31, will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8:45, and |
 | Thirty-fourth st. at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers, (Nyack, and |
 | Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall, |
 | Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill, |
 | Hudson, and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge |
 | cars in connection with the day boats will leave on arrival |
 | at Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare |
 | $4.25 from
 New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat |
 | Seneca will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | ESTABLISHED 1866 |
 | |
 | JAS. R. Nichols, M.D., WM. J. Rolfe, A.M., Editors |
 | |
 | Boston Journal of Chemistry. |
 | |
 | Devoted to the Science of |
 | |
 | HOME LIFE, |
 | |
 | The Arts, Agriculture, and Medicine. |
 | |
 | $1.00 Per Year. |
 | |
 | _Journal and Punchinello (without Premium)_ $4.00. |
 | |
 | Send for Specimen-Copy |
 | |
 | Address--JOURNAL OF CHEMISTRY, |
 | |
 | 150 CONGRESS STREET, BOSTON. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | HENRY L. STEPHENS, |
 | |
 | ARTIST, |
 | |
 | No. 160 FULTON STREET, |
 | |
 | NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | GEO. B. BOWLEND, |
 | |
 | Draughtsman & Designer |
 | |
 | No. 160 Fulton Street, |
 | |
 | Room No. 11, NEW YORK. |
 | |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------+

The

MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XIV.

CLOVES FOR THREE.

Christmas Eve in Bumsteadville. Christmas Eve all over the world, but
especially where the English language is spoken. No sooner does the
first facetious star wink upon this Eve, than all the English-speaking
millions of this Boston-crowned earth begin casting off their hatreds,
meannesses, uncharities, and Carlyleisms, as a garment, and, in a
beautiful spirit of no objections to anybody, proceed to think what can
be done for the poor in the way of sincerely wishing them well. The
princely merchant, in his counting-room, involuntarily experiences the
softening, humanizing influence of the hour, and, in tones tremulous
with unwonted emotion, privately directs his Chief-Clerk to tell all the
other clerks, that, on this night of all the round year, they may,
before leaving the store at 10 o'clock, take almost any article from
that slightly damaged auction-stock down in the front cellar, a
t actual
cost-price. This, they are to understand, implies their Employer's
hearty wish of a Merry Christmas to them; and is a sign that, in the
grand spirit of the festal season, he can even forget and forgive those
unnatural leaner entry-clerks who are always whining for more than their
allotted $7 a week. The President of the great railroad corporation, in
the very middle of a growling fit over the extra cost involved in
purchasing his last Legislature, (owing to the fact that some of its
Members had been elected upon a fusion of Radical-Reform and
Honest-Workingman's Tickets,) is suddenly and mysteriously impressed
with the recollection that this is Christmas Eve. "Why, bless my soul,
so it is!" he cries, springing up from his littered rosewood desk like a
boy. "Here, you General Superintendent out there in the office!" sings
he, cheerily, "send some one down to Washington Market this instant, to
find out whether or not any of those luscious anatomical western turkies
that I saw in the barrels this morning are left yet. If the commercial
hotels down-town haven't taken them all, buy every remaining barrel at
once! Not a man nor boy in this Company's service shall go home to-night
without his Christmas dinner in his hand! Lively, now, Mr. JONES! and
just oblige me by picking out one of the birds for yourself, if you can
find one at all less blue than the rest. It's Christmas Eve, sir; and
upon my word I'm really sorry our boys have to work to-morrow as usual.
Ah! it's hard to be poor, JONES! A merry Christmas to us all. Here's my
carriage come for me." And even in returning to their homes from their
daily avocations, on Christmas Eve, how the most grasping, penurious
souls of men will soften to the world's unfortunate! Who is this poor
old lady, looking as though she might be somebody's grandmother, sitting
here by the wayside, shivering, on such an Eve as this? No home to
go?--Relations all dead?--Eaten nothing in two days?--Walked all the way
from the Woman's Rights Bureau in Boston?--Dear me! _can_ there be 
so
much suffering on Christmas Eve? I must do something for her, or my own
good dinner to-morrow will be a reproach to me. "Here! Policeman! just
take this poor old lady to the Station-House, and give her a good warm
home there until morning. There! cheer-up, Aunty; you're all right
_now._ This gentleman in the uniform has promised to take care of you.
Merry Christmas!"--Or, when at home, and that extremely bony lad, in the
thin summer coat, chatters to you, from the snow on the front-stoop,
about the courage he has taken from Christmas Eve to ask you for enough
to get a meal and a night's-lodging--how differently from your ordinary
style does a something soft in your breast impel you to treat him. "No
work to be obtained?" you say, in a light tone, to cheer him up. "Of
course there's none _here,_ my young friend. All the work here at the
East is for foreigners, in order that they may be used at election-time.
As for you, an American boy, why don't you go to h-- I mean to the West.
_Go West_, young man! Buy a good, stout farming outfit, two or three
serviceable horses, or mules, a portable house made in sections, a few
cattle, a case of fever medicine--and then go out to the far West upon
Government-land. You'd better go to one of the hotels for to-night, and
then purchase Mr. GREELEY'S 'What I Know About Farming,' and start as
soon as the snow permits in the morning. Here are ten cents for you.
Merry Christmas!"--Thus to honor the natal Festival of Him--the
Unselfish incarnate, the Divinely insighted--Who said unto the
lip-server: Sell all that thou hast, and give it to the Poor, and follow
Me; and from Whom the lip-server, having great possessions, went away
exceeding sorrowful!

Three men are to meet at dinner in the Bumsteadian apartments on this
Christmas Eve. How has each one passed the day?

MONTGOMERY PENDRAGON, in his room in Gospeler's Gulch, reads Southern
tragedies in an old copy of the _New Orleans Picayune,_ until two
o'clock, when he hastily tears up all his soiled paper collars, packs a
few things
 into a travelling satchel, and, with the latter slung over
his shoulder, and a Kehoe's Indian club in his right hand, is met in the
hall by his tutor, the Gospeler.

"What are you doing with that club, Mr. MONTGOMERY?" asks the Reverend
OCTAVIUS, hastily stepping back into a corner.

"I've bought it to exercise with in the open air," answers the young
Southerner, playfully denting the wall just over his tutor's head with
it "After this dinner with Mr. DROOD, at BUMSTEAD'S, I reckon I shall
start on a walking match, and I've procured the club for exercise as I
go. Thus:" He twirls it high in the air, grazes Mr. SIMPSON'S nearer
ear, hits his own head accidentally, and breaks the glass in the
hat-stand.

"I see! I see!" says the Gospeler, rather hurriedly. "Perhaps you _had_
better be entirely alone, and in the open country, when you take that
exercise."

Rubbing his skull quite dismally, the prospective pedestrian goes
straightway to the porch of the Alms-House, and there waits until his
sister comes down in her bonnet and joins him.

"MAGNOLIA," he remarks, hastening to be the first to speak, in order to
have any conversational chance at all with her, "it is not the least
mysterious part of this Mystery of ours, that keeps us all out of doors
so much in the unseasonable winter month of December,[1] and now I am
peculiarly a meteorological martyr in feeling obliged to go walking for
two whole freezing weeks, or until the Holidays and this--this
marriage-business, are over. I didn't tell Mr. SIMPSON, but my real
purpose, I reckon, in having this club, is to save myself, by violent
exercise with it, from perishing of cold."

"Must you do this, MONTGOMERY?" asks his colloquial sister,
thoughtfully. "Perhaps if I were to talk long enough with you--"

"--You'd literally exhaust me into not going? Certainly you would," he
returns, confidently. "First, my head would ache from the constant
noise; then it would spin; then I should grow faint and hear you less
distinctly; then your voice, although you were talking-on the s
ame as
ever, would sound like a mere steady hum to me; then I should become
unconscious, and be carried home, with you still whispering in my ear.
But do _not_ talk, MAGNOLIA; for I must do the walking-match. The
prejudice here against my Southern birth makes me a damper upon the
festivities of others at this general season of forgiveness to all
mankind, and I can't stand the sight of that DROOD and Miss POTTS
together. I'd better stay away until they have gone."

He pauses a moment, and adds: "I wish I were not going to this dinner,
or that I were not carrying this club there."

He shakes her hand and his own head, glances up at the storm-clouds now
gathering in the sky, goes onward to Mr. BUMSTEAD'S boarding-house,
halts at the door a moment to moisten his right hand and balance the
Indian club in it, and then enters.

EDWIN DROOD'S day before merry Christmas is equally hilarious. Now that
the Flowerpot is no longer on his mind, the proneness of the masculine
nature to court misfortune causes him to think seriously of Miss
PENDRAGON, and wonder whether _she_ would make a wife to ruin a man? It
will be rather awkward, he thinks, to be in Bumsteadville for a week or
two after the Macassar young ladies shall have heard of his matrimonial
disengagement, as they will all be sure to sit symmetrically at every
front window in the Alms-House whenever he tries to go by; and he
resolves to escape the danger by starting for Egypt, Illinois,
immediately after he has seen Mr. DIBBLE and explained the situation to
him. Finding that his watch has run down, he steps into a jeweler's to
have it wound, and is at once subjected to insinuating overtures by the
man of genius. What does he think of this ring, which is exactly the
thing for some particular Occasions in Life? It is made of the metal for
which nearly all young couples marry now-a-days, is as endless as their
disagreements, and, by the new process, can be stretched to fit the
Second wife's hand, also. Or look at this pearl set. Very chaste, really
soothing; intended as 
a present from a Husband after First Quarrel.
These cameo ear-rings were never known to fail. Judiciously presented,
in a velvet case, they may be depended upon to at once divert a young
Wife from Returning to her Mother, as she has threatened. Ah! Mr. DROOD
cares for no more jewelry than his watch, chain and seal-ring? To be
sure! when Mr. BUMSTEAD was in yesterday for the regular daily new
crystal in his own watch--how _does_ he break so many!--_he_ said that
his beloved nephews wore only watches and rings, or he would buy paste
breastpins for them. Your oroide is now wound up, Mr. DROOD, and set at
twenty minutes past Two.

"Dear old JACK!" thinks EDWIN to himself, pocketing his watch as he
walks away; "he thinks just twice as much of me as any one else in the
world, and I should feel doubly grateful."

As dusk draws on, the young fellow, returning from a long walk, espies
an aged Irish lady leaning against a tree on the edge of the turnpike,
with a pipe upside-down in her mouth, and her bonnet on
wrong-side-afore.

"Are you sick?" he asks kindly.

"Divil a sick, gintlemen," is the answer, with a slight catch of the
voice,--"bless the two of yez!"

EDWIN DROOD can scarcely avoid a start, as he thinks to himself, "Good
Heaven! how much like JACK!"

"Do you eat cloves, madame?" he asks, respectfully.

"Cloves is it, honey? ah, thin, I do that, whin I'm expectin' company.
Odether-nodether, but I've come here the day from New York for nothing.
Sure phat's the names of you two darlints?"

"EDWIN," he answers, in some wonder, as he hands her a currency stamp,
which, on account of the large hole worn in it, he has been repeatedly
unable to pass himself.

"EDDY is it? Och hone, och hone, machree!" exclaims the venerable woman,
hanging desolately around the tree by her arms while her bonnet falls
over her left ear: "I've heard that name threatened. Och, acushla
wirasthu!"

Believing that the matron will be less agitated if left alone, and,
probably, able to get a little roadside sleep, EDWIN DROOD passes onward
in deep
 thought. The boarding-house is reached, and _he_ enters.

J. BUMSTEAD'S day of the dinner is also marked by exhilarating
experiences. With one coat-tail unwittingly tucked far up his back, so
that it seems to be amputated, and his alpaca umbrella under his arm, he
enters a grocery-store of the village, and abstractedly asks how
strawberries are selling to-day? Upon being reminded that fresh fruit is
very scarce in late December, he changes his purpose, and orders two
bottles of Bourbon flavoring-extract sent to his address. And now he
wishes to know what they are charging for sponges? They tell him that he
must seek those articles at the druggist's, and he compromises by
requesting that four lemons be forwarded to his residence. Have they any
good Canton-flannel, suitable for a person of medium complexion?--
No?--Very well, then: send half a pound of cloves to his house before
night.

There are Ritualistic services at Saint Cow's, and he renders the
organ-accompaniments with such unusual freedom from reminiscences of the
bacchanalian repertory, that the Gospeler is impelled to compliment him
as they leave the cathedral.

"You're in fine tone to-day, BUMSTEAD. Not quite so much volume to your
playing as sometimes, but still the tune could be recognized."

"That, sir," answers the organist, explainingly, "was because I held my
right wrist firmly with my left hand, and played mostly with only one
finger. The method, I find, secures steadiness of touch and precision in
hitting the right key."

"I should think it would, Mr. BUMSTEAD. You seem to be more free than
ordinarily from your occasional indisposition."

"I am less nervous, Mr. SIMPSON," is the reply. "I've made up my mind to
swear off, sir.--I'll tell you what I'll do, SIMPSON," continues the
Ritualistic organist, with sudden confidential affability. "I'll make an
agreement with you, that whichever of us catches the other slipping-up
first in the New Year, shall be entitled to call for whatever he wants."

"Bless me! I don't understand," ejaculates the Gospel
er.

"No matter, sir. No matter!" retorts the mystic of the organ-loft,
abruptly returning to his original gloom. "My company awaits me, and I
must go."

"Excuse me," cries the Gospeler, turning back a moment; "but what's the
matter with your coat?"

The other discovers the condition of his tucked-up coat-tail with some
fierceness of aspect, but immediately explains that it must have been
caused by his sitting upon a folding-chair just before leaving home.

So, humming a savage tune in make-belief of no embarrassment at all in
regard to his recently disordered garment, Mr. BUMSTEAD reaches his
boarding-house. At the door he waits long enough to examine his
umbrella, with scowling scrutiny, in every rib; and then _he_ enters.

Behind the red window-curtain of the room of the dinner-party shines the
light all night, while before it a wailing December gale rises higher
and higher. Through leafless branches, under eaves and against chimneys,
the savage wings of the storm are beaten, its long fingers caught, and
its giant shoulder heaved. Still, while nothing else seems steady, that
light behind the red curtain burns unextinguished; the reason being that
the window is closed and the wind cannot get at it.

At morning comes a hush on nature; the sun arises with that innocent
expression of countenance which causes some persons to fancy that it
resembles Mr. GREELEY after shaving; and there is an evident desire on
the part of the wind to pretend that it has not been up all night.
Fallen chimnies, however, expose the airy fraud, and the clock blown
completely out of Saint Cow's steeple reveals what a high time there has
been.

Christmas morning though it is, Mr. MCLAUGHLIN is summoned from his
family-circle of pigs, to mount the Ritualistic church and see what can
be done; and while a small throng of early idlers are staring up at him
from Gospeler's Gulch, Mr. BUMSTEAD, with his coat on in the wrong way,
and a wet towel on his head, comes tearing in amongst them like a
congreve rocket.

"Where's them nephews?--where's MO
NTGOMERIES?--where's that umbrella?"
howls Mr. BUMSTEAD, catching the first man he sees by the throat, and
driving his hat over his eyes.

"What's the matter, for goodness sake?" calls the Gospeler from the
window of his house. "Mr. PENDRAGON has gone away on a walking-match. Is
not Mr. DROOD at home with you?"

"Norrabit'v it," pants the organist, releasing his man's throat, but
still leaning with heavy affection upon him: "m'nephews wen 'out with 'm
--f'r li'lle walk--er mir'night; an' 've norseen'm--since."

There is no more looking up at Saint Cow's steeple with a MCLAUGHLIN on
it now. All eyes fix upon the agitated Mr. BUMSTEAD, as he wildly
attempts to step over the tall paling of the Gospeler's fence at a
stride, and goes crashing headlong through it instead.

(_To be Continued_.)

[Footnote 1: In the original English story there is, considering the
bitter time of year given, a truly extraordinary amount of solitary
sauntering, social strolling, confidential confabulating,
evening-rambling, and general lingering, in the open air. To "adapt"
this novel peculiarity to American practice, without some little
violation of probability, is what the present conscientious Adapter
finds almost the artistic requirement of his task.]

 * * * * *

ALL HAIL!

The most fearful weapon yet brought into the field of war--if we are to
believe newspaper correspondents--is the revolving grape-shot gun known
as the "hail-thrower," a piece of ordnance said to be in use by the
French and Prussian armies, alike. If half we hear about the
"hail-thrower" be true, 'twere better for all concerned to keep out of
hail of it. Many a hale fellow well met by that fearful hail storm must
go to grass ere the red glare of the war has passed away. "Where do you
hail from?" would be a bootless question to put when the "hail-thrower"
begins to administer throes to the breaking ranks. Worse than that; it
would probably be a headless question.

 * * * * *

"THE PERFECT CURE."

A newspaper paragraph states that, in Minnesota, they have a very
summa
ry way of restoring the consciousness of pigs that have been
smitten by the summery rays of the sun. They simply open piggy's head
with a pick-axe or other handy instrument, introduce a handful or two of
salt, close up the head again, and piggy is all right. But this, after
all, is simply a new application of the old practice of Curing pork with
salt.

 * * * * *

Con by a Son of a Gun.

Why are the new breech-loaders supplied with needles?
To keep their breeches in repair, of course.

 * * * * *

Con by a Carpet-Shaker.

Why is a large carpet like the late rebellion?
Because it took such a lot of tax to put it down.

 * * * * *

ADVICE TO PICNIC PARTIES.

At this culminating period of the summer season, it is natural that the
civic mind should turn itself to the contemplation of sweet rural
things, including shady groves, lunch-baskets, wild flowers, sandwiches,
bird songs, and bottled lager-bier.

The skies are at their bluest, now; the woods and fields are at their
greenest; flowers are blooming their yellowest, and purplest, and
scarletest. All Nature is smiling, in fact, with one large,
comprehensive smile, exactly like a first-class PRANG chromo with a
fresh coat of varnish upon it.

Things being thus, what can be more charming than a rural excursion to
some tangled thicket, the very brambles, and poison-ivy, and possible
copperhead snakes of which are points of unspeakable value to a picnic
party, because they are sensational, and one cannot have them in the
city without rushing into fabulous extra expense. It is good, then, that
neighbors should club together for the festive purposes of the picnic,
and a few words of advice regarding the arrangement of such parties may
be seasonable.

If your excursion includes a steamboat trip, always select a boat that
is likely to be crowded to its utmost capacity, more especially one of
which a majority of the passengers are babies in arms. There will
probably be some roughs on board, who will be certain to get up a row,
in which case you can make the babies in arms v
ery effective as
"buffers" for warding off blows, while the crowd will save you from
being knocked down.

Should there be a bar on board the steamer, it will be the duty of the
gentlemen of the party to keep serving the ladies with cool beverages
from it at brief intervals during the trip. This will promote
cheerfulness, and, at the same time, save for picnic duty proper the
contents of the stone jars that are slumbering sweetly among the
pork-pies and apple-dumplings by which the lunch-baskets are occupied.

Never take more than one knife and fork with you to a picnic, no matter
how large the party may be. The probability is that you may be attacked
by a gang of rowdies and it is no part of your business to furnish them
with weapons.

Avoid taking up your ground near a swamp or stagnant water of any kind.
This is not so much on account of mosquitoes as because of the small
saurian reptiles that abound in such places. If your party is a large
one, there will certainly be one lady in it, at least, who has had a
lizard in her stomach for several years, and the struggles of the
confined reptile to join its congeners in the swamp might induce
convulsions, and so mar the hilarity of the party.

To provide against an attack by the city brigands who are always
prowling in the vicinity of picnic parties, it will be judicious to
attend to the following rules:

Select all the fat women of the party, and seat them in a ring outside
the rest of the picnickers, and with their faces toward the centre of
the circle. In the event of a discharge of missiles this will be found a
very effective _cordon_--quite as effective, in fact, as the feather
beds used in the making up of barricades.

Let the babies of the party be so distributed that each, or as many as
possible of the gentlemen present, can have one at hand to snatch up and
use for a fender should an attack at close quarters be made.

If any dark, designful strangers should intrude themselves upon the
party, unbidden, the gentlemen present should by no means exhibit the
slig
htest disposition to resent the intrusion, or to show fight, as the
strangers are sure to be professional thieves, and, as such, ready to
commit murder, if necessary. Treat the strangers with every
consideration possible under the circumstances. Should there be no
champagne, apologize for the absence of it, and offer the next best
vintage you happen to have. Of course, having lunched, the strangers
will be eager to acquire possession of all valuables belonging to the
party. The gentlemen, therefore, will make a point of promptly handing
over to them their own watches and jewelry, as well as those of their
lady friends.

Having arrived home, (we assume the possibility of this,) refrain,
carefully, from communicating with the police on the subject of the
events of the day. The publicity that would follow would render you an
object of derision, and no possible good could result to you from
disclosure of the facts. But you should at once make up your mind never
to participate in another picnic.

 * * * * *

A CHANCE FOR OUR ORGAN GRINDERS.

The famous _mitrailleur_, or grape-thrower, with which LOUIS NAPOLEON
has already commenced to astonish the Prussians, suggests congenial work
for the numerous performers on the barrel-organ with which our large
cities are at all times infested. It is worked with a crank, exactly
after the manner of the too-familiar street instrument; and might easily
be fitted with a musical cylinder arranged for the performance of the
most inspiriting and patriotic French airs. Should Italy, at present
neutral, take side with France hereafter, she should at once withdraw
her wandering minstrels from all parts of the world, and set them to
work on the "double attachment" engine of L.N. Nothing could be more
appropriate for working the _mitrailleur_ than a corps of barrel-organ
grinders from the land of the Grape.

 * * * * *

THE ORIGIN OF PUNCHINELLO.

MR. PUNCHINELLO: Though aware that you "belong to Company G," and must
not be bothered, I wish to ask whether you are descended from the famous
c
hicken-dealer of Sorrento, who sold fowls in Naples, and was well-known
in that fun-loving city for the humor of his speech and the oddity of
his form. He was called "PULCINELLA," I believe, the name being the same
as that of his wares.

If not to this celebrated wag, perhaps you trace your origin to Mr.
PUCCIO D'ANELLO, who so delighted a company of actors at Aceria, with
his jokes and gibes, that they invited him to join them, and soon
discovered that they had found a Star.

If neither of these classical wags was your ancestor, may I ask, who the
deuce _did_ you come from? Yours, truly,

CURIOSO.

 * * * * *

RECIPE TO BE TESTED.

We see that they have been "firing cannon in the fields near Paris, to
bring on a rain." If there is any virtue in this recipe, they are likely
to get some moist weather to the north-eastward of Paris, to say the
least. The firing in that quarter may even lead to a Reign in Paris such
as France has not lately seen. We would not go so far as to _predict_
anything of this sort. Oh, no; for we are aware that the moment we
should do so, NAPOLEON would lick the Prussians on purpose to show the
world that we didn't hit it that time.

 * * * * *

THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacations.

When one wants to see the great people who are to be seen nowhere else,
one goes to the celebrated White Sulphur Springs of Virginia; and, very
correctly supposing that there might be persons there who would like to
see him, Mr. PUNCHINELLO took a trip to the aforesaid springs. He found
it charming there. There was such a chance to study character. From the
parlors where Chief-Justice CHASE and General LEE were hob-nobbing over
apple-toddies and "peach-and-honey," to the cabins where the wards of
the nation were luxuriating in picturesque ease beneath the shade of
their newly-fledged angel of liberty, everything was instructive to the
well-balanced mind.

Here, too, in these fertile regions, were to be seen those exquisite
floral creations known as mint-juleps, the absence of which in our
Northern agri
cultural exhibitions can never be sufficiently deplored.

Witness the beauty of the design and the ingenious delicacy of the
execution of one of the humblest of the species.

From experience in the matter, Mr. P. is prepared to say, that not only
as an exponent of the beauties of nature, but as a drink, a mint-julep
is far superior to the water which gives thin resort its celebrity. Why
people persist in drinking that vilest of all water which is found at
the fashionable springs, Mr. P. cannot divine. If it is medicine you
want, you can get your drugs at any apothecary's, and he will mix them
in water for you for a very small sum extra. And the saving in expense
of travel, board and extras, will be enormous.

But in spite of this fact, there were plenty of distinguished-looking
people at the White Sulphur. Mr. P. didn't know them all, but he had no
doubt that one of them was General LEE; one PHIL. SHERIDAN; another
Prof. MAURY; another GOLDWIN SMITH; and others Governor WISE; HENRY WARD
BEECHER, WADE HAMPTON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, RAPHAEL SEMMES, and LUCRETIA
MOTT. One man, an incognito, excited Mr. P.'s curiosity. This personage
was generally found in the society of LEE, JOHNSTON, POPE, HAMPTON,
GREELEY, and those other fellows who did so much to injure the Union
cause during the war. One day Mr. P. accosted him. He was an oddity, and
perhaps it would be a good idea to put his picture in the paper.

"Sir!" said Mr. P., with that delicate consideration for which he is so
noted, "why do you pull your hat down over your eyes, and what is your
object in thus concealing your identity? Come sir! let us know what it
all means."

The _incognito_ glanced at Mr. P. with the corner of his eye, and
perceiving that he was in citizen's dress, pulled his hat still further
over his face.

"My business," said he, "is my own, but since the subject has been
broached, I may as well let _you_ know what it is."

"You know me, then?" said Mr. P.

"I do," replied the other, and proceeding with his recital, he said,
"You may have heard that
 a number of <DW64> squatters were lately ejected
from a private estate in this State, after they had made the grounds to
blossom like the rose, and to bring forth like the herring."

"Yes, I heard that," said Mr. P.

"Well," said the other, "I happened to have some land near by, and I
invited those <DW64>s to come and squat on my premises--"

"Intending to turn them off about blossoming time?" said Mr. P.

"Certainly, certainly," said the other, "and I am just waiting about
here until they put in a wheat crop on part of the land. I can then sell
that portion, right away."

"Well, Mr. BEN BUTLER," said Mr. P., "all that is easily understood, now
that I know who you are; but tell me this, why are you so careful to
cover your face when in the company of civilians or ladies, and yet go
about so freely among these ex-Confederate officers?"

"Oh," said the other, "you see I don't want to be known down here, and
some of the women or old men might remember my face. There's no danger
of any of the soldiers recognizing me, you know."

"Oh, no," cried Mr. P. "None in the world, sir."

"And besides," said the modest BUTLER, "it's too late now for me to be
spooning around among the women."

"That's so," said Mr. P. "Good-bye, BENJAMIN. Any news from Dominica?"

"None at all," said the other, "and I don't care if there never is. I am
opposed to that annexation scheme now."

"Sold your claims?" said Mr. P. The incognito winked and departed.

That evening at supper Mr. P. remarked that his biscuits were rather
hard, and he blandly requested a waiter to take one of them outside and
crack it. The elder PEYTON, who runs the hotel, overheard Mr. P.'s
remark, and stepping up to him, said:

"Sir, you should not be so particular about your food. What you pay me,
while you stay at my place, is my charge for the water you drink. The
food and lodging I throw in, gratis."

Mr. P. arose.

"Mr. PEYTON," said he, "when I was quite a little boy, my father, making
the tour of America, brought me here, and I distinctly remember your
making that
 remark to him. Since then many of my friends have visited
the White Sulphur, and you invariably made the same remark to them. Is
there no way to escape the venerable joke?"

The gentle PEYTON made no answer, but walked away, and after supper, one
of the boarders took Mr. P. aside and urged him to excuse their host, as
he was obliged to make the joke in question to every guest. The
obligation was in his lease.

So the matter blew over.

Reflecting, however, that if he had to pay so much for the water, that
he had better drink a little, Mr. P. went down to the spring to see what
could be done. On the way, he met Uncle AARON, formerly one of
WASHINGTON'S body-servants. The venerable patriarch touched his hat, and
Mr. P., hoping from such great age to gain a little wisdom, propounded
the following questions:

"Uncle, is this water good for the bile?"

"Oh, lor! no, mah'sr! Dat dar water 'ud jis spile anything you biled in
it. Make it taste of rotten eggs, for all the world, sir! 'Deed it
would.'

"But what I want to know," said Mr. P., "is why the people drink it."

"Lor' bless you, mah'sr! Dis here chile kin tell you dat. Ye see de
gem'men from de Norf dey drinks it bekase they eat so much cold wheat
bread. Allers makes 'em sick, sir."

"And why do the Southerners drink it?"

"Wal, mah'sr, you see dey eats so much hot wheat bread, and it don't
agree wid 'em, no how."

"But how about the <DW52> people? I have seen them drinking it,
frequently," said Mr. P.

"Oh, lor, mah'sr, how you is a askin' questions! Don't you know dat de
 folks hab to drink it bekase dey don't get no wheat bread at
all?"

Mr. P. heard no better philosophy than this on the subject while he
remained at the White Sulphur. When he left, he brought a couple of
gallons of the water with him, and intends keeping it in the
water-cooler in his office, for loungers.

 * * * * *

THE POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO III.

 "JACK and GILL went up the bill
 To fetch a pail of water;
 JACK fell down and broke his crown,
 And GILL came tumbling after."

How many 
persons there are who read those lines without giving one
moment's thought to their hidden beauty. Love, obedience, and devotion
unto death, are here portrayed; and yet people will repeat the lines of
the melancholy muse with a smile on their faces, and even teach it to
their young children as a sort of joyful lyric.

My own infant-mind was tampered with in the same manner; and after I had
committed the poem to memory I was proudly called up by my fond and
doting parents to display my infantile acquirements before admiring
visitors. The result might have been foreknown. All my infancy and youth
passed away, and I never once perceived the hidden worth of these lines
till I had tumbled down a hill myself, cracked my crown, and was laid up
with it a week or more. During that time I had leisure to muse on the
fate of poor JACK. When my mind expanded so as to take in all the
sublimity of his devotion and death, my heart was filled with admiration
and astonishment, and I resolved I would make one effort to rescue the
memory of poor JACK and loving GILL from the oblivion it seemed to be
falling into, in the greater admiration people gave to the musical style
of the writer.

 "JACK and GILL went up the hill."

Here you see the obedient, loving, long-suffering, put-upon drudge of
his brothers and sisters-we will take the liberty of giving him a few of
each as we are a little more generous than the author--who was compelled
(not the author, but JACK,) to do all the chores, fetch and carry, 'tend
and wait, bear the heat and burden of the day, and be the JACK for all
of them. He was not dignified by the respectable title of JOHN, or
JONATHAN, but was poor simple JACK.

Virtue will always be rewarded, however, and even freckle-faced,
red-headed JACK had one friend, blue-eyed, tender-hearted GILL, who,
seeing the unhesitating obedience he rendered to all, forthwith
concluded that one so lone and sad could appreciate true friendship and
understand the motives that prompted her to give, unsolicited, her
gushing love. So, when th
e good JACK started up the hill, loving GILL
generously offered to accompany him. Probably the other children looked
out of the windows after them, and laughed, and jeered, and wondered
whither they were going; but, observing the pail, concluded they were
going

 "To fetch a pail of water,"

which they were willing JACK should do, as it would save them the
possibility of being ordered to do it; not that there was a probability
of such a command being given, but there was a slight danger that the
thing might happen in case JACK was occupied otherwise when the water
was needed. But now that he had gone for it, they were all right, and
rejoiced exceedingly thereat.

Meanwhile the two little sympathizing companions toiled up the steep
hill, drinking in with every inhalation of the balmy air copious
draughts of the new-found elixir of life. "Soft eyes looked love to eyes
that spake again,"[2] and their hearts melted beneath each tender glance.
The little chubby hands that grasped the handle of the pail timidly
crept closer together, and by the time they had reached the rugged top,
it needed but one warm embrace to mingle the two souls into one,
henceforth forever.

This was done.

Tremblingly they drew back, blushing, casting modest glances at each
other; and then, to aid them in recovering from their confusion, turned
their attention to the water, which reflected back two happy, smiling
faces. Filling the pail with the dimpled liquid mirror, they turned
their steps homeward.

Light at heart and intoxicated with bliss, poor JACK, ever unfortunate,
dashed his foot against a stone, and thus it was that

 "JACK fell down and broke his crown."

[Oh! what a fall was there, my countrywomen!] Fearful were the shrieks
that rent the mountain air as he rolled down the hillside. The pail they
had carried so carefully was overturned and rent asunder, and the
trembling water spilled upon the smiling hill-side--fit emblem of their
vanishing hopes.

Down went the roley-poley boy, like a dumpling down a cellar-door;
crashing his head
 against the cruel rocks that stood in stony
heartedness in his way, and dashing his brains out against their hard
sides. His loving companion, eyes and month dilated with horror, stood
still and rigid, gazing upon the fearful descent, and its tragic ending,
then throwing her arms aloft, and giving a fearful shriek of agony that
thrilled with horror the hearts of the hearers--if there were any--cast
herself down in exact imitation of the fall of her hero, rolled over and
over as he did, and ended by mingling her blood with his upon the same
stones.

_His_ crown was broken diagonally; _hers_ slantindicularly; that was the
only difference. Her suicidal act is commemorated in the line,

 "And GILL came tumbling after."

The catastrophe was witnessed by the assembled family, who hastened to
the bleeding victims of parental injustice, and endeavored to do all
that was possible to restore life to the mangled forms of the two who
loved when living, and in death were not divided.

But all in vain. They were dead, and not till then did the family
appreciate the beautiful, self-denying, heroic disposition of the little
martyr, JACK.

The two innocent forms were buried side by side, and the whole country
round mourned the fate of the infant lovers.

Painters preserved their pictures on canvas, and poets sung them at
eventide. The beauties of their life, and their tragic death, were given
by the poet-laureate of the day in the words I have just transcribed;
and such an impression did these make on the minds of the inhabitants,
that the whole population took them to heart, and, with tears in their
eyes, taught them to their children, even unto the third and fourth
generations.

Alas! it was reserved for our day and generation to gabble them over
unthinking, carelessly unmindful of the fearful fate the words describe.

Repentant ones, drop to their memory a tear, even now! It is not too
late!

[Footnote 2: Original, by some other fellow.]

 * * * * *

[Illustration:
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT IN OUR ARMY OF THE FUTURE.
"NONE BUT THE B
RAVE," ETC.]

 * * * * *

LETTER FROM A CROAKER.

MR. PUNCHINELLO: You have not, I believe, informed your readers, one of
whom I have the honor to be, as to whether you have yet united yourself
to any Designing Female. As this is a matter peculiarly interesting to
many of your readers, all of whom, I have not the least doubt, are
interested in your welfare, I would advise some statement on your part,
respecting it.

I trust, my dear sir, that, if you are as yet free, you will take the
well-intended advice of a sufferer, and steer entirely clear of the
shoals and quicksands peculiar to the life of a married man, by never
embarking in the matrimonial ship.

Do not misunderstand me. I lived happily, very happily, with my sainted
BELINDA--it must be confessed that she had a striking partiality for
sardines, which caused considerable of a decrease in the profits of my
wholesale and retail grocery establishment. I cherish no resentment on
that account, but, as you probably well know, one of the discomforts of
matrimonial existence is children.

Sir, I have a daughter, who is considered passably good-looking by
certain appreciative individuals. Since the unfortunate demise of my
lamented wife, the profits of the mercantile establishment of which I am
proprietor have largely increased, and as REBECCA is my only child,
there is a considerable prospect of her bringing to the man who espouses
her, a comfortable dowry, and probably a share in my business.

I keep no man-servant, and after my daughter retires--generally at the
witching hour of two in the morning,--I am obliged to hobble down
stairs, extinguish the lights, cover the fire, lock up the house, and
ascertain whether it is perfectly fire and burglar-proof for the time
being.

Were this, sir, the only annoyance to which I am subjected, my wrath
would probably expend itself in a little growling, but hardly have I
reposed myself upon my couch, ere my ear catches an infernal tooting and
twanging and whispering, and a broken-winded German band, engaged by an
admirer of 
my REBECCA, strikes up some outrageous _pot pourri_, or
something of that sort, and sleep, disgusted, flees my pillow.

Last night--or rather this morning--they came again. Their discordant
symphonies roused me to desperation. I seized a bucket of slops, and;
opening the window, dashed the contents in the direction of the music;
the full force of the deluge striking a fat, froggy-looking little
Dutchman, who was puffing and blowing at a bassoon infinitely larger
than himself. He was just launching out into a prodigious strain, but it
expired while yet in the bloom of youth. He remained for a short time in
the famous posture of the Colossus of Rhodes, vainly endeavoring to
shake off the cigar-stumps and other little _et ceteras_ which were
clinging to him like cerements, uttering the while unintelligible oaths.
Then he struck for his _domus et placens uxor_ at as rapid a rate as his
little dumpy legs could carry him.

If they come to-night--if they dare to come--I will give them a dose
which they will remember.

My dear sir, what can I do to rid myself of these annoyances? The girl
has been to boarding-school, and so can't be sent there again. She has
no friends or relations whom it would be advisable to put her off upon.
Assist me then, in this, the hour of my tribulation, and you, my dear
Mr. PUNCHINELLO, will merit the lasting gratitude of an

UNHAPPY FATHER.

[The best thing an "Unhappy Father" can do, under the circumstances, is
to learn to play upon the bass horn, and then, should the brazen
serenaders again make their appearance, he can give them blow for
blow.--ED. PUNCHINELLO.]

 * * * * *

That Iron "Dog."

The latest bit of intelligence given by the police regarding the "dog"
so much spoken of in connection with the Twenty-third street murder, is
that it is not, as at first stated, the kind of instrument used by
shipwrights. In other words, the police have discovered that it is not a
Water-dog, though, up to the present date, they have not been able to
prove it a Bloodhound.

 * * * * *

Severe Penalty.


A newspaper gravely informs us that "the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
has refused the Writ of Error in the case of Dr. SHOEPPE, convicted of
the murder of Mr. STEINNEKE, _and will be hanged_."

Can nothing be done to save this Court? One may say they had no business
to refuse the Writ. But, at any rate, we are of opinion that the
punishment is excessive.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: WONDERFUL TOUR DE FORCE,

PERFORMED "ON THE BEACH AT LONG BEACH," BY PROFESSOR JAMES FISK, JR.,
THE GREAT AMERICAN ATHLETE.]

 * * * * *

HIRAM GREEN ON JERSEY MUSQUITOES.

A Hard-fought Battle--Musquitoes have no Sting that Jersey Lightning
cannot Cure.

New Jarsey is noted among her sister countries, as bein' responsible for
2 of the most destructive things ever got up.

The first is of the animal kingdom, and varyin in size from a 3 yeer old
snappin' turtle, to a lode of hay.

It has a bayonet its nose, in which is a skwirt gun charged with
pizen.

It has no hesitation, whatsoever, of shovin' it's pitch-fork into a
human bein', and when a feller feels it, it makes him think old
SOLFERINO has come for him, and no mistake.

The sirname of this sleep-distroyin' animile, is Muskeeter. And they
like their meet raw.

Misery Number 2 is a beverige manufactured from the compound extract of
chain litenin on the wing, and ile of vitril. It is then flavored with
earysipelas and 7 yeer itch, when it is ready to lay out it's man.

I was on a visit to Jarsey, a short time ago, and if ever a man was
justified in cussin' the day he ever sot foot onto the classick red
shores of New Jarsey, (which soil, by the way, is so greasy that all the
red-headed New Jarsey gals use it for hair ile, while for greasin' a
pancake griddle it can't be beat,) it was the undersined.

The first nite I was in that furrin climb, after hangin' my close over a
chair, and droppin' my false teeth in a tumbler of water, I retired in a
sober and morril condition.

"Balmy sleep, sweet nater's hair restorer," which sentiment I cote from
Mr. DICKENS, who, I understand from the
 Bosting clergy, is now sizzlin',
haden't yet folded me in her embrace.

Strains of melody, surpassin' by severil lengths the melifflous
discordant notes of the one-armed hand organist's most sublimerest
seemfunny, sircharged the atmosfear. Ever and anon the red-hot breezes
kissed the honest old man's innocent cheek, and slobbered grate capsules
of odoriferous moisture, which ran in little silvery streams from his
reclinin' form. Yes! verily, great pearls hung pendant from his nasal
protuberants.

In other words, I hadent gone to sleep, but lay their sweatin' like an
ice waggon, while the well-known battle song of famished Muskeeters fell
onto my ear. The music seized; and a regiment of Jarsey Muskeeters, all
armed to the teeth and wearin' cowhide butes, marched single-file into
my open window.

The Kernal, a gray-headed old war-worn vetenary, alited from his hoss,
and tide the animal to the bed-post.

The Commander then mounted ontop of the wash-stand, and helpin' hisself
to a chaw of tobacker out of my box, which lay aside him, the old
scoundrel commenced firin' his tobacker juice in my new white hat. "See
here, Kernal," said I, somewhat riled at seein' him make a spittoon of
my best 'stove-pipe,' "if it's all the same to you, spose'n you eject
your vile secretion out of the winder."

"Cork up, old man," said the impudent raskle, "or ile spit on ye and
drown you."

All about the room the privates were sacreligously misusing my property.

One red-headed old Muskeeter, who was so full of somebody's blood he
couldn't hardly waddle, was seated in the rockin'-chair, and with my
specturcols on his nose, was readin' a copy of PUNCHINELLO, and laffin'
as if heed bust.

Another chap had got my jack-nife, and was amusin' hisself by slashin'
holes in my bloo cotton umbreller, which two other Muskeeters had shoved
up, and was a settin' under, engaged in tyin' my panterloon legs into
hard nots.

Another scallawag had jammed my coat part way into my butes, and was
pourin' water into 'em out from the wash-pitcher, and I am so
rry to say
it, evry darned Muskeeter was up to some mean trick, which would put to
blush, even a member of the New Jarsey legislater.

Suddenly the Kernal hollered:

"To arms!"

And every Muskeeter fell into line about my bedside.

"Charge bagonets!" said the Kernal. At which the hul lot went for me.
Their pizened wepins entered my flesh.

They charged onto my bald head. Rammed their bayonets into my arms--my
back--my side--and there wasen't a place bigger'n a cent, which they
diden't fill with pizen.

There I lay, groanin' for mercy.

But Jersey Muskeeters, not dealin' in that article, don't know what it
is.

Like the new collecter MURFY, when choppin' off the heads of FENTON
offis holders, mercy hain't their lay, about these times.

At this juncture a company of draggoons clinchin' their pesky bills into
me, dragged me off onto the floor.

And then such a horrible laff they would give, when I would strike for
them and miss hittin'.

There I lay on the floor, puffin' and blowin' like a steem ingine, while
the hull army was dancin' a war dance around my prostrate figger, and
the old Kernal was cuttin' down a double shuffle on the wash-stand,
which made the crockery rattle.

I kicked at 'em as they would charge on my feet and l--limbs. I grabbed
at 'em, as they charged on my face--arms--and shoulders.

Slap! bang! kick! sware!

I couldn't stand it much longer.

As a big corpulent feller, who, I should judge, was gittin' readdy to
jine a Fat mans club, went over me, I catched him by the heel.

I hung on to him with my best holt

He dragged me all over the floor.

My head struck the bedposts, and other furniture.

3 other Muskeeters got straddle of me, and as if I was a hoss, spurred
me up purty lively.

All of a sudden the Muskeeter I was hangin' to give a yank, and drew out
his foot, left his bute in my hand.

Brandishin' the bute about my head, I cleared at lot of Muskeeters.

Jumpin' to my feet I made things fly for a minuit, pilin' up the killed
and wounded in a promiscous heap.

Seein' the Kernal settin' up th
ere enjoyin' the fun, I let fly the bute
at him.

Smash! went the lookin-glass.

The venerable commanding Muskeeter had dodged, and was settin' on the
burow, with his thumb on his nose, wrigglin' his fingers at me in a very
ongentlemanly manner.

There I was again unarmed, dancin' about, swelled up like a base ball
player on match day.

"Blood IARGO!" was the cry.

I tride to make a masked battery with a piller. It was no protection
again Jarsey Muskeeters.

As RACHEL mourned for her step-mother, I sighed for me home.

"Why, oh why," I cride, "did I leave old Skeensboro?"

A widder wearin' a borrowed suit of mornin'--eleven children cryin'
because the governor had been chawed up by Muskeeters crowded into my
thoughts.

The army was gettin' reddy to charge onto me agin, and avenge their
fallen comrags.

Suddenly a brite thought struck me.

I ceased a sheet and waved it for a flag of truce.

The order wasen't given.

"Kernal," said I, "before we continue this fite, let's take a drink all
around, and I'll stand treat."

"Done," said he, "trot out your benzine."

I opened the burow drawer, and took out a black bottle.

I pulled the cork and filled all the glasses, then poured a lot into the
wash-bowl, when I handed the bottle to the Kernal.

"Make ready! Take aim! Drink!" Down went the licker.

I laffed a revengeful laff, as every condemned Muskeeter turned up their
heels and cride:

"Water--send my bones back to Chiny--mother dear, I'm comein', 300,000
strong--we die--by the hand--of Jarsey--lite--"

And Jarsey litenin', more powerful than the chassepo gun of France or
the needle-gun of Prushy, had done its work, and the old man was saved
to the world!

It was 3 days before any close would again fit me.

I looked more like a big balloon than a human bein', I was swelled up so
with the pizen.

My blessin's on the head of the individual who invented Jarsey litenin'.
Nothin else would have saved the Lait Gustise's valuable life.

Ever of thow,

HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._

 * * * * *

From our own 
Correspondent.

Rumors of war from Europe must always be expected, for how can we get
Pacific news by Atlantic Telegraph?

 * * * * *

[Illustration: "WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS," ETC,

_First Small Bather_. "WOULDN'T OUR MAMS GIVE US FITS IF THEY CAUGHT US
SWIMMIN'?"

_Second Ditto_. "I'LL BET YER!"

(_But neither of the happy little truants knows that a thief is running
off with their clothes_.)]

 * * * * *

REFORM IN JUVENILE LITERATURE.

Since the thrilling moment when GUTTENBURG made his celebrated
discovery, numbers of persons have tried their hands--and undoubtedly
their heads also--at Books for the Young. Hitherto, many of them have
evinced a sad lack of judgment in respect of matter.

Would you believe it, in this highly moral and virtuous age? they have
actually written stories!--stories that were not true! They haven't
seemed to care a button whether they told the truth or not! Where can
they have contracted the deadly heresy that imagination, feeling, and
affection, are good things, deserving encouragement? Mark the effect of
these pernicious teachings! Hundreds and thousands--nay, fellow mortal,
_millions_ of children,--now walk the earth, believing in fairies,
giants, ogres, and such-like unreal personages, and yet unable (we blush
to say it!) to tell why the globe we live on is flattened at the poles!
Is it not a serious question whether children who persistently ignore
what is true and important, but cherish fondly these abominable fables,
may not ultimately be lost?

But, thanks to the recent growth of practical sense--or the decline of
the inventive faculty--in writers for the young, a better day is
dawning, and there is still some hope for the world. Men of sense and
morality are coming forward: they dedicate their minds to this
service--those practical minds whence will be extracted the only true
pabulum for the growing intellect. It is to minds of this stamp--so
truly the antipodes of all that is youthful, spontaneous, and
child-like, (in a word: frivolous,) that we must look for those solid
w
orks which, in the Millennium that is coming, will perfectly supplant
what may be termed, without levity, the "Cock and Bull" system of
juvenile entertainment. Worldly people may consider this stuff graceful
and touching, sweet and loveable; but it is nevertheless clearly
mischievous, else pious and proper persons wouldn't have said so, time
and again.

For our part, we may as well confess that our sympathies go out
undividedly toward that important class who are averse to
Nonsense,--more particularly _book_-nonsense,--which they can't stand,
and won't stand, and there's an end of it. There is something
exceedingly winning, to us, in that sturdy sense, that thirst for
mathematical precision, that impatience of theory, that positive and
self-reliant--we don't mind saying, somewhat dogmatical--air, that
sternness of feature, thinness of lip, and coldness of eye, which belong
to the best examples. We respect even the humbler ones; for they at
least hate sentiment, they do not comprehend or approve of humor, and
they never relish wit. What does a taste for these qualities indicate,
but an idle and frivolous mind, devoted to trifles: and how fatal is
such a taste, in the pursuit of wealth and respectability!

Fantastic people have much to say of the "affections," the "graces and
amenities of life," "soul-culture," and the like. We cannot too deeply
deplore their fatuity, in giving prominence to such abstractions. As for
children, the most we can concede is, that they have a natural--though,
of course, depraved--taste for stories: yes, we will say that this
fondness is irrepressible. But, what we really must insist on, is, that
in gratifying that fondness, you give them _true_ stories. Where is the
carefully trained and upright soul that would not reject "JACK, the
Giant-killer," or "Goody Two-shoes," if it could substitute (say, from
"New and True Stories for Children,") a tale as thrilling as this:

 "When I was a boy, I said to my uncle one day, 'How did you
 get your finger cut off?' and he said, 'I was chopping a

 stick one evening, and the hatchet cut off my finger.'"

Blessings, blessings on the man who thus embalmed this touching
incident! Who does not see that the reign of fiction is over!

That the parental portion of the public may judge what the future has in
store for their little ones (who, we hope, will be men and women far
sooner than their ancestors were,) we present them with a fragrant
nosegay (pshaw! we mean, a shovel-full) of samples, commending them,
should they wish for more, to the nearest Sabbath-school library.

Ah, it is a touching thing, to see some great philanthropist come
forward, at the call of Duty and his Publisher (perhaps also quickened
by the hollow sound emitted by his treasure-box), and compress himself
into the absurdly small compass of a few pages 18mo., in order to afford
himself the exalted pleasure of holding simple and godly converse with
children at large!

"All truth--no fiction." What further guarantee would you have? How
replete with useful matter must not a book with _that_ assurance be! Let
us read:

 "The Indians cannot build a ship. They do not Know how to get
 iron from the mines, _and they do not know enough._

 "Besides, they do not like to work, and like to fight
 _better_ than to work.

 "When they want to sail, they burn off a log of wood, and
 make it hollow by burning and scraping it with sharp stones."

Now we ask, does not this satisfy your ideal of food for the youthful
mind? Observe that it is simple, direct, graphic, satisfying. It cannot
enfeeble the intellect. It will be useful. There is something tangible
about it. The child at once perceives that if the Indians knew how to
"get iron from the mines," and "knew enough" in general, they would
build ships, in spite of their distaste for work. There can be no doubt
that this is "all truth--no fiction," for Indians are sadly in want of
ships. They like to sail; for we learn that "when they want to sail"
they are so wild for it, that they even go to the length of "burning off
a log of wood, and making it hollow by 
burning and scraping it with
sharp stones." We thus perceive the significance of the apothegm, "Truth
is stranger than fiction." The day is not far distant when children will
think as much of the new literature as they formerly did of certain
worm-lozenges, for which they were said to "cry."

And where everything has been inspired by the love of Truth, even the
cuts may teach something. If "a canoe," contrary to the general
impression, is at least as long as "a ship," it is very important that
children should so understand it; and if "a pin-fish" is really as big
as "a shark," no mistaken deference to the feelings of the latter should
make us hesitate to say so.

No child, we are convinced, is too young to get ideas of science. In one
of the model books we are pleased to find this great truth distinctly
recognized:

 "'Is there anything like a lever about a wheelbarrow?' said
 his father. 'O yes, sir,' said JAMES. 'The axle; and the
 wheel is the prop, the load is the weight, and the power is
 your hand.'"

This, we should say, speaks for itself.

Nor is a child ever too young to get ideas of thrift. One of our writers
for infants observes, after explaining that the Dutch reclaimed the
whole of Holland from the sea by means of <DW18>s, "they worked hard,
saved their money, and so grew rich." Any child can take such hints.

Neither is it wholly amiss to demonstrate that a child can't put a clock
in his pocket. For it is plain that he would else be trying to do so
sometime.

Now, where in the "Arabian Nights" do you find anything like this?--We
answer, triumphantly, Nowhere!

 "'JAMES,' said his father, 'do not shut up hot water too
 tight, and take care when it is over the fire.'

 "'A lady was boiling coffee one day, and kept the cover on
 the coffee-pot too long. When she took it off, the water
 turned to steam, and flew up in her face, and took the skin
 off.

 "'Do you know how they make the wheels of a steamboat move?
 They shut up water tight in a great kettle and heat it. Then
 they open a hole which has a 
heavy iron bar in it, the steam
 lifts it, in trying to get out. That bar moves a lever, and
 the lever moves the wheels.

 "'Machines are wonderful things.'"

This fact the reader must distinctly realize. And doesn't he realize
that the days of JACK, the Giant-killer, and Little Red Riding Hood, are
about over? We want truth. The only question is, (as FESTUS observed),
What is Truth?

 * * * * *

PUNCHINELLO CORRESPONDENCE

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

_Derrick_.--There is a superstition afloat that, if you see a ladder
hoisted against a house, and, instead of passing outside the ladder you
pass under it, some accident or affliction will befall you. What about
this?

_Answer._.--It all depends upon circumstances. If, while passing under
the ladder, a hod of bricks should fall through it and strike you on the
head, then an "accident or affliction" shall have befallen you:
otherwise not.

_Nincompoop_.--I hear a great deal about the "log" of the _Cambria._ Can
you tell me how it is likely to be disposed of?

_Answer_.--It is to be manufactured into snuff-boxes for the officers
and crew of the _Dauntless_, as a delicate admission that they are up to
snuff and not to be sneezed at.

_Nick of the Pick_.--What is the best way of securing one's self from
the bodily damages to which all persons who attend pic-nic parties now
seem to be liable?

_Answer_.--Don't go to pic-nic parties. Rough it at home.

_John Brown_.--We cannot insert jokes on the number of SMITHS in the
world--except as advertisements. For lowest rates see terms on the
cover.

_Hircus_.--We are sorry to say that your remarks on Baby Farming are not
based upon facts. In nine cases out of ten it has nothing whatever to do
with Husbandry.

_Acorn_.--As this is the seventh time you have written to us, asking
whether corns can be cured by cutting, so it must be the last. The thing
palls, and we must now try whether ACORN cannot be got rid of by
cutting.

_Horseman_.--No; we never remember to have met a man who did not "know
all about a horse." If such a man c
an be found, his fortune and that of
the finder are assured.

_Seeker_.--It may be true that man changes once in every seven years but
that will hardly excuse you from paying your tailor's bill contracted in
1862, on the ground that you are not the same man.

_Fond Mother_.--None but a brutal bachelor would object to a "sweet
little baby," merely because it was bald-headed.

_Sempronius_.--Would you advise me to commit suicide by hanging?

_Answer_.--No. If you are really bound to hang, we would advise you to
hang about some nice young female person's neck instead of by your own:
it's pleasanter.

_Wacks_.--Yes, the Alaska seal contracts will undoubtedly include the
great Seal of the United States.

_"Talented" Author_.--We do not pay for rejected communications.

_Many Inquiriers_.--We can furnish back numbers to a limited extent;
future ones by the cargo, or steamboat.

 * * * * *

FINANCIAL.

WALL STREET, AUGUST 2ND.

Respected Sir: Acting upon your suggestion that, despite the repugnance
with which the truly artistic mind must ever view it, Commerce was a
rising institution, and that amongst the thousands of the refined and
haughty who read PUNCHINELLO with feelings of astonishment and awe,
there were some misguided men whose energies had been perverted to the
pursuit of filthy lucre, your contributor yesterday descended into the
purlieus of the city in quest of information wherewith to pander to the
tastes of the debased few.

It would be useless to point out to you that 10 A.M. is not the hour at
which it is the custom of Y.C. to tear himself from his luxurious conch.
His conception of the exalted has always been associated with late
breakfasts. On this memorable occasion, however, duty and a bell-boy
called him; and at the extraordinary hour to which he has referred he
arose and set about his investigations.

A party of distinguished and sorrowing friends accompanied him as far as
BANG'S. The regard which he cherishes for poetry and art had hitherto
marked out this pleasant hostelrie as the utmost limit of
 his down-town
perambulations. The conversation of his distinguished friends was
elevating: the potations in which they drank their good wishes were
equally, if not more so. Having deposited $2.35 for safe-keeping with a
trusted friend, your contributor hailed a Wall Street stage and sped
fearlessly to his destination. He has gone through the ordeal safely.
Annexed are the result of his labors, in the shape of bulletins which
were forwarded to but never acknowledged by a frivolous and unfeeling
editor.

WALL STREET, 10-1/2 A.M.--The market opened briskly with a tendency
towards DELMONICO'S for early refreshments. Eye-openers in active
demand. Brokers have undergone an improvement.

11 A.M.--On the strength of a rumor that a gold dollar had been seen in
an up-town jewelry store, gold declined 1.105.

11.15 A.M.--In consequence of a report that Col. JAS. FISK, JR., has
secured a lease of Plymouth Church, and is already engaged in
negotiations with several popular preachers, Eries advanced one-half per
cent.

HALF-PAST ELEVEN A.M.--A reaction has commenced in Eries, it being given
out that Madame KATHI LANNER had sustained an injury which would
necessitate her withdrawal from the Grand Opera House.

TWELVE O'CLOCK.--Just heard some fellow saying, "St. Paul preferred."
Couldn't catch the rest. It seems important. What did St. Paul prefer.
Look it up, and send me word.

HALF-PAST TWELVE.--Market excited over a dog-fight. How about St. Paul?

ONE.--Police on the scene. Market relapsed. Anything of St. Paul yet?
Send me what's-his-name's Commentaries on the Scriptures.

HALF-PAST ONE.--News has been received here that Commodore VANDERBILT
was recently seen in the neighborhood of the Croton reservoir. In view
of the anticipated watering process, N.Y.C. securities are buoyant.
Many, however, would prefer their stock straight. But what was it St.
Paul preferred? Do tell.

TWO O'CLOCK.--Immense excitement has been created on 'Change by a report
that JAY GOULD had been observed discussing Corn with a prominent
Government off
icial. A second panic is predicted.

QUARTER PAST TWO.--Later advices confirm the above report. The place of
their meeting is said to have been the Erie Restaurant. Great anxiety is
felt among heavy speculators.

HALT-PAST TWO.--It is now ascertained that the Corn they were discussing
was Hot Corn at lunch. A feeling of greater security prevails.

THREE O'CLOCK.--Intelligence has just reached here that a dime-piece was
received in change this morning at a Broadway drinking saloon. Gold has
receded one per cent, in consequence. Eries quiet, Judge BARNARD being
out of town.

P.S. I haven't found out what St. Paul preferred. What's-his-name don't
mention it in his Commentaries.

HALF-PAST THREE.--Sudden demand for New York Amusement Co.'s Stock.
HARRY PALMER to reopen Tammany with a grand scalping scene in which the
TWEED tribe of Indians will appear in aboriginal costume. NORTON, GENET,
and _confreres_ have kindly consented to perform their original _roles_
of _The Victims_.

P.S. Unless I receive some definite information concerning that
preference of St. Paul's, I shall feel it incumbent on me to vacate my
post of Financial Editor.

FOUR O'CLOCK.--On receipt of reassuring news from Europe, the market has
advanced to DELMONICO'S, where wet goods are quoted from 10 cents
upwards. Champagne brisk, with large sales. Counter-sales (sandwiches,
etc.,) extensive. Change in greenbacks greasy.

P.S. Asked a fellow what St. Paul preferred. He said, "St. Paul
Preferred Dividends, you Know." Perhaps St. Paul did. A great many
stockholders do. But what stock did St. Paul hold? Was it Mariposa
or--"Only just taken one, but, as you observe, the weather _is_
confounded hot--so I don't mind if I--"

GREENBAYS.

 * * * * *

[Illustration: THE DOG IN THE MANGER.
Crispin won't do the work himself, and won't let John Chinaman do it. ]

 * * * * *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

We have just received from "DICK TINTO," our special correspondent at
the seat of war, the following metrical production said to have been
written by HENRI ROCHEFORT in pris
on, but suppressed in obedience to
orders from the Emperor. PUNCHINELLO felicitates his readers upon the
enterprise which enables him to lay it before them, and flatters himself
that the enormous trouble and expense involved in hauling it to this
side of the Atlantic, will not prevent him from doing it again--if
necessary.

AU PRINCE IMPERIAL.

SCENE.--_A square fronting the Bureau of the chemin de fer for Chalons
and Metz. Time, Midi._

The Prince Imperial, en route for the seat of war, is seated upon a
milk-white steed. Beneath his left arm he convulsively carries a
struggling game-cock, with gigantic gaffs, while his right hand feebly
clutches a lance, the napping of whose pennant in his face appears to
give him great annoyance and suggests the services of a "Shoo-fly."
Around him throng the ladies of the Imperial bed-chamber and a cohort of
nurses, who cover his legs with kisses, and then dart furtively between
his horse's _jambes_ as if to escape the pressure of the crowd. Just
beyond these a throng of hucksters, market-women, butchers, bakers,
etc., vociferously urge him to accept their votive offerings of garden
truck, carrots, cabbages, parsnips, haunches of beef, baskets of French
rolls and the like, all of which the Prince proudly declines, whereupon
the vast concourse breaks forth into this wild chant to the air of

BINGEN ON THE RHINE.

 From fountains bright at fair Versailles,
 And gardens of St. Cloud--
 With a rooster of the Gallic breed
 To cock-a-doodle-do--

 Behold! our Prince Imperial comes,
 And in his hands a lance,
 That erst he'll cross with German spears
 For glory and for France.

 They've ta'en his bib and tucker off,
 And set him on a steed;
 That he may ride where soldiers ride,
 And bleed where soldiers bleed.

 They've cut his curls of jetty hair,
 And armed him _cap a pie_,
 Until he looks as fair a knight
 As France could wish to see.

 Ho! ladies of the chamber,
 Ho! nurses, gather near;
 Your _charge_ upon a _charger_ waits
 To shed the parting tear.

 Come! kiss him for his mo
ther,
 _Et pour sa Majeste,_
 And twine his brow with garlands of
 The fadeless _fleurs de lis._

 _Voila!_ who but a few moons gone
 Of babies held the van,
 Now wears his spurs and draws his blade
 Like any other man!

 Then come, ye courtly dames of France,
 Oh! take him to your heart,
 And cheer as only woman can
 Our beardless BONAPARTE;

 For ere another sun shall set,
 Those lips cannot be kissed;
 And through the grove and in the court
 Their prattling will be missed.

 The light that from those soft blue eyes
 Now kindly answers thine,
 Will flash where mighty armies tread,
 Upon the banks of Rhine.

 Yea, hide from him, as best you can,
 All womanly alarms,
 Nor smile with those who mocking cry,
 "Behold! A _babe-in-arms!_"

 A babe indeed! Oh! sland'rous tongues,
 A Prince fresh from his smock,
 Shows _manly_ proof if he can stand
 The battle shout and shock.

 And this is one on whom the gods
 Have put their stamp divine:
 The latest, and perchance the last
 Of Corsica's dread line.

 Then for the Prince Imperial
 _Citoyens_ loudly cheer:
 That his right arm may often bring
 Some German to his _bier_;

 That distant Rhineland, trembling,
 May hear his battle-cry,
 And neutral nations wondering ask,
 "_Oh! how is this far high?_"

Our private dispatches from the seat of war in Europe are very
confusing. The "Seat" appears to be considerably excited, but the "War"
takes things easily, and seems to have "switched off" for an indefinite
time. It is observed by many that there never was a war precisely like
this war, and if it hadn't been for a Dutch female, the Duchess of
Flanders, it is fair to suppose that PUNCHINELLO wouldn't have been out
of pocket so much for cablegrams. The Duchess took it into her head (and
her head appears to have had room for it,) that her blood relative,
LEOPOLD, couldn't get his blood up to accept the Spanish Crown. Well, as
it turned out, the Duchess was right. Anyhow, she went for L., (a letter
by the way, which few Englishman can pronounce in polite society,) and
told him th
at there was

 "* * * a tide in the affairs of men,
 Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune."

LEOPOLD said he had heard of that tide; but he didn't believe in always
"follerin' on it," no matter what betided. Then the Duchess got up her
Dutch spunk, and spoke out pretty freely, saying as much as if LEOPOLD
were a tame sort of poodle, and that _she_ ought to have been born to
wear breeches, just to show him how a man should act in a great crisis
like the present.

"Just so," says LEOPOLD, "but you see the 'crisis' is what's the matter.
If it wasn't for the 'crisis,' I'd go in for ISABELLA'S old armchair
faster than a hungry pig could root up potatoes." FLANDERS saw at a
glance how the goose hung, and that her bread would all be dough if
something wasn't done, and that quickly. She knew LEOPOLD'S weakness for
Schnapps, when he was a boy at Schiedam, and, producing a bottle of the
Aromatic elixir, with which she had previously armed herself in
expectation of his obstinacy, poured out a glassful and requested him to
clear his voice with it. Fifteen minutes after his vocal organs had been
thus renewed, LEOPOLD was in a condition to see things in an entirely
new light, and hesitated no longer to write the following note to
General PRIM:

Dear PRIM: The thing has been satisfactorily explained to me, and I
accept. Enclosed find a bottle of Schnapps. You never tasted Schnapps
like this. The Duchess says she don't care a cuss for NAP, and that I
mustn't neither.

--LEOPOLD, SIGMARINGEN-HOHENZOLLERN.

This is a veritable account of the origin of the European
"unpleasantness," and can be certified to any one who will call upon us
and examine the original dispatches.

 +--------------------------------------------------------------+
 | |
 | A.T. Stewart & Co. |
 | |
 | Are offering at the following |
 | |
 | EXTREMELY LOW PRICES, |
 | |
 | Notwithstanding the large advance in gold, |
 | |
 | TWO CASES EXTRA QUALITY |
 | |
 | JAPANESE POPLINS In Silver-Grey |
 | and Ashes of Roses, |
 | |
 | 75 cts. per yard, formerly
<|endoftext|>
Produced by World Library, Inc., from their Library of the Future

This is the 100th Etext file presented by Project Gutenberg, and
is presented in cooperation with World Library, Inc., from their
Library of the Future and Shakespeare CDROMS. Project Gutenberg
often releases Etexts that are NOT placed in the Public Domain!!

Shakespeare

*This Etext has certain copyright implications you should read!*

<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION. ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY. PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

*Project Gutenberg is proud to cooperate with The World Library*
in the presentation of The Complete Works of William Shakespeare
for your reading for education and entertainment. HOWEVER, THIS
IS NEITHER SHAREWARE NOR PUBLIC DOMAIN. . .AND UNDER THE LIBRARY
OF THE FUTURE CONDITIONS OF THIS PRESENTATION. . .NO CHARGES MAY
BE MADE FOR *ANY* ACCESS TO THIS MATERIAL. YOU ARE ENCOURAGED!!
TO GIVE IT AWAY TO ANYONE YOU LIKE, BUT NO CHARGES ARE ALLOWED!!

***** SMALL PRINT! for COMPLETE SHAKESPEARE *****

THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC.,
AND IS PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF
ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE WITH PERMISSION.

Since unlike many other Project Gutenberg-tm etexts, this etext
is copyright protected, and since the materials and methods you
use will effect the Project's reputation, your right to copy and
distribute it is limited by the copyright and other laws, and by
the conditions of this "Small Print!" statement.

1. LICENSE

 A) YOU MAY (AND ARE ENCOURAGED) TO DISTRIBUTE ELECTRONIC AND
MACHINE READABLE COPIES OF THIS ETEXT, SO LONG 
AS SUCH COPIES
(1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT
DISTRIBUTED OR USED COMMERCIALLY. PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL
DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD
TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.

 B) This license is subject to the conditions that you honor
the refund and replacement provisions of this "small print!"
statement; and that you distribute exact copies of this etext,
including this Small Print statement. Such copies can be
compressed or any proprietary form (including any form resulting
from word processing or hypertext software), so long as
*EITHER*:

 (1) The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and does
 *not* contain characters other than those intended by the
 author of the work, although tilde (~), asterisk (*) and
 underline (_) characters may be used to convey punctuation
 intended by the author, and additional characters may be used
 to indicate hypertext links; OR

 (2) The etext is readily convertible by the reader at no
 expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent form by the
 program that displays the etext (as is the case, for instance,
 with most word processors); OR

 (3) You provide or agree to provide on request at no
 additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the etext in plain
 ASCII.

2. LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES

This etext may contain a "Defect" in the form of incomplete,
inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or
other infringement, a defective or damaged disk, computer virus,
or codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment. But
for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below, the
Project (and any other party you may receive this etext from as
a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all liability to you for
damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, and YOU HAVE
NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR
BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF
YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of receiv-
ing it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid
for it by sending an explanatory note within that time to the
person you received it from. If you received it on a physical
medium, you must return it with your note, and such person may
choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy. If you
received it electronically, such person may choose to
alternatively give you a second opportunity to receive it
electronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS". NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Some states do not allow disclaimers of
implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of consequen-
tial damages, so the above disclaimers and exclusions may not
apply to you, and you may have other legal rights.

3. INDEMNITY: You will indemnify and hold the Project, its
directors, officers, members and agents harmless from all lia-
bility, cost and expense, including legal fees, that arise
directly or indirectly from any of the following that you do or
cause: [A] distribution of this etext, [B] alteration,
modification, or addition to the etext, or [C] any Defect.

4. WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number of
public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed
in machine readable form. The Project gratefully accepts
contributions in money, time, scanning machines, OCR software,
public domain etexts, royalty free copyright licenses, and
whatever else you can think of. Money should be paid to "Pro-
ject Gutenberg Association / Illinois Benedictine College".

This "Small Print!" by Charles B. Kramer, Attorney
Internet (72600.2026@compuserve.com); TEL: (212-254-5093)
**** SMALL PRINT! FOR __ COMPLETE SHAKESPEARE ****
["Small Print" V.12.08.93]

<<THIS ELECTRON
IC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION. ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY. PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>

1609

THE SONNETS

by William Shakespeare

 1
 From fairest creatures we desire increase,
 That thereby beauty's rose might never die,
 But as the riper should by time decease,
 His tender heir might bear his memory:
 But thou contracted to thine own bright eyes,
 Feed'st thy light's flame with self-substantial fuel,
 Making a famine where abundance lies,
 Thy self thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:
 Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament,
 And only herald to the gaudy spring,
 Within thine own bud buriest thy content,
 And tender churl mak'st waste in niggarding:
 Pity the world, or else this glutton be,
 To eat the world's due, by the grave and thee.

 2
 When forty winters shall besiege thy brow,
 And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field,
 Thy youth's proud livery so gazed on now,
 Will be a tattered weed of small worth held:
 Then being asked, where all thy beauty lies,
 Where all the treasure of thy lusty days;
 To say within thine own deep sunken eyes,
 Were an all-eating shame, and thriftless praise.
 How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use,
 If thou couldst answer 'This fair child of mine
 Shall sum my count, and make my old excuse'
 Proving his beauty by succession thine.
 This were to be new made when thou art old,
 And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold.

 3
 Look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest,
 Now is the time that face should form another,
 Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,
 Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
 For where is she so fair whose uneared womb
 Dis
dains the tillage of thy husbandry?
 Or who is he so fond will be the tomb,
 Of his self-love to stop posterity?
 Thou art thy mother's glass and she in thee
 Calls back the lovely April of her prime,
 So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
 Despite of wrinkles this thy golden time.
 But if thou live remembered not to be,
 Die single and thine image dies with thee.

 4
 Unthrifty loveliness why dost thou spend,
 Upon thy self thy beauty's legacy?
 Nature's bequest gives nothing but doth lend,
 And being frank she lends to those are free:
 Then beauteous niggard why dost thou abuse,
 The bounteous largess given thee to give?
 Profitless usurer why dost thou use
 So great a sum of sums yet canst not live?
 For having traffic with thy self alone,
 Thou of thy self thy sweet self dost deceive,
 Then how when nature calls thee to be gone,
 What acceptable audit canst thou leave?
 Thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee,
 Which used lives th' executor to be.

 5
 Those hours that with gentle work did frame
 The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell
 Will play the tyrants to the very same,
 And that unfair which fairly doth excel:
 For never-resting time leads summer on
 To hideous winter and confounds him there,
 Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
 Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness every where:
 Then were not summer's distillation left
 A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
 Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,
 Nor it nor no remembrance what it was.
 But flowers distilled though they with winter meet,
 Leese but their show, their substance still lives sweet.

 6
 Then let not winter's ragged hand deface,
 In thee thy summer ere thou be distilled:
 Make sweet some vial; treasure thou some place,
 With beauty's treasure ere it be self-killed:
 That use is not forbidden usury,
 Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
 That's for thy self to breed another thee,
 Or ten times happier be it ten for one,
 Ten times thy self were happier than thou art,
 If ten of thine ten times refi
gured thee:
 Then what could death do if thou shouldst depart,
 Leaving thee living in posterity?
 Be not self-willed for thou art much too fair,
 To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.

 7
 Lo in the orient when the gracious light
 Lifts up his burning head, each under eye
 Doth homage to his new-appearing sight,
 Serving with looks his sacred majesty,
 And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
 Resembling strong youth in his middle age,
 Yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,
 Attending on his golden pilgrimage:
 But when from highmost pitch with weary car,
 Like feeble age he reeleth from the day,
 The eyes (fore duteous) now converted are
 From his low tract and look another way:
 So thou, thy self out-going in thy noon:
 Unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.

 8
 Music to hear, why hear'st thou music sadly?
 Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy:
 Why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
 Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
 If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
 By unions married do offend thine ear,
 They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
 In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear:
 Mark how one string sweet husband to another,
 Strikes each in each by mutual ordering;
 Resembling sire, and child, and happy mother,
 Who all in one, one pleasing note do sing:
 Whose speechless song being many, seeming one,
 Sings this to thee, 'Thou single wilt prove none'.

 9
 Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye,
 That thou consum'st thy self in single life?
 Ah, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
 The world will wail thee like a makeless wife,
 The world will be thy widow and still weep,
 That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
 When every private widow well may keep,
 By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind:
 Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
 Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
 But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,
 And kept unused the user so destroys it:
 No love toward others in that bosom sits
 Th
at on himself such murd'rous shame commits.

 10
 For shame deny that thou bear'st love to any
 Who for thy self art so unprovident.
 Grant if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
 But that thou none lov'st is most evident:
 For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate,
 That 'gainst thy self thou stick'st not to conspire,
 Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
 Which to repair should be thy chief desire:
 O change thy thought, that I may change my mind,
 Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
 Be as thy presence is gracious and kind,
 Or to thy self at least kind-hearted prove,
 Make thee another self for love of me,
 That beauty still may live in thine or thee.

 11
 As fast as thou shalt wane so fast thou grow'st,
 In one of thine, from that which thou departest,
 And that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow'st,
 Thou mayst call thine, when thou from youth convertest,
 Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase,
 Without this folly, age, and cold decay,
 If all were minded so, the times should cease,
 And threescore year would make the world away:
 Let those whom nature hath not made for store,
 Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish:
 Look whom she best endowed, she gave thee more;
 Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish:
 She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby,
 Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.

 12
 When I do count the clock that tells the time,
 And see the brave day sunk in hideous night,
 When I behold the violet past prime,
 And sable curls all silvered o'er with white:
 When lofty trees I see barren of leaves,
 Which erst from heat did canopy the herd
 And summer's green all girded up in sheaves
 Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard:
 Then of thy beauty do I question make
 That thou among the wastes of time must go,
 Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake,
 And die as fast as they see others grow,
 And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defence
 Save breed to brave him, when he takes thee hence.

 13
 O that you were your se
lf, but love you are
 No longer yours, than you your self here live,
 Against this coming end you should prepare,
 And your sweet semblance to some other give.
 So should that beauty which you hold in lease
 Find no determination, then you were
 Your self again after your self's decease,
 When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.
 Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
 Which husbandry in honour might uphold,
 Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
 And barren rage of death's eternal cold?
 O none but unthrifts, dear my love you know,
 You had a father, let your son say so.

 14
 Not from the stars do I my judgement pluck,
 And yet methinks I have astronomy,
 But not to tell of good, or evil luck,
 Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality,
 Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell;
 Pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,
 Or say with princes if it shall go well
 By oft predict that I in heaven find.
 But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,
 And constant stars in them I read such art
 As truth and beauty shall together thrive
 If from thy self, to store thou wouldst convert:
 Or else of thee this I prognosticate,
 Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.

 15
 When I consider every thing that grows
 Holds in perfection but a little moment.
 That this huge stage presenteth nought but shows
 Whereon the stars in secret influence comment.
 When I perceive that men as plants increase,
 Cheered and checked even by the self-same sky:
 Vaunt in their youthful sap, at height decrease,
 And wear their brave state out of memory.
 Then the conceit of this inconstant stay,
 Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
 Where wasteful time debateth with decay
 To change your day of youth to sullied night,
 And all in war with Time for love of you,
 As he takes from you, I engraft you new.

 16
 But wherefore do not you a mightier way
 Make war upon this bloody tyrant Time?
 And fortify your self in your decay
 With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?
 Now stand you on the top of happy hours,
 
And many maiden gardens yet unset,
 With virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,
 Much liker than your painted counterfeit:
 So should the lines of life that life repair
 Which this (Time's pencil) or my pupil pen
 Neither in inward worth nor outward fair
 Can make you live your self in eyes of men.
 To give away your self, keeps your self still,
 And you must live drawn by your own sweet skill.

 17
 Who will believe my verse in time to come
 If it were filled with your most high deserts?
 Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb
 Which hides your life, and shows not half your parts:
 If I could write the beauty of your eyes,
 And in fresh numbers number all your graces,
 The age to come would say this poet lies,
 Such heavenly touches ne'er touched earthly faces.
 So should my papers (yellowed with their age)
 Be scorned, like old men of less truth than tongue,
 And your true rights be termed a poet's rage,
 And stretched metre of an antique song.
 But were some child of yours alive that time,
 You should live twice in it, and in my rhyme.

 18
 Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
 Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
 Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
 And summer's lease hath all too short a date:
 Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
 And often is his gold complexion dimmed,
 And every fair from fair sometime declines,
 By chance, or nature's changing course untrimmed:
 But thy eternal summer shall not fade,
 Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
 Nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,
 When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st,
 So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
 So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.

 19
 Devouring Time blunt thou the lion's paws,
 And make the earth devour her own sweet brood,
 Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,
 And burn the long-lived phoenix, in her blood,
 Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet'st,
 And do whate'er thou wilt swift-footed Time
 To the wide world and all her fading sweets:
 But I
 forbid thee one most heinous crime,
 O carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
 Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen,
 Him in thy course untainted do allow,
 For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.
 Yet do thy worst old Time: despite thy wrong,
 My love shall in my verse ever live young.

 20
 A woman's face with nature's own hand painted,
 Hast thou the master mistress of my passion,
 A woman's gentle heart but not acquainted
 With shifting change as is false women's fashion,
 An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling:
 Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth,
 A man in hue all hues in his controlling,
 Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
 And for a woman wert thou first created,
 Till nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,
 And by addition me of thee defeated,
 By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
 But since she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
 Mine be thy love and thy love's use their treasure.

 21
 So is it not with me as with that muse,
 Stirred by a painted beauty to his verse,
 Who heaven it self for ornament doth use,
 And every fair with his fair doth rehearse,
 Making a couplement of proud compare
 With sun and moon, with earth and sea's rich gems:
 With April's first-born flowers and all things rare,
 That heaven's air in this huge rondure hems.
 O let me true in love but truly write,
 And then believe me, my love is as fair,
 As any mother's child, though not so bright
 As those gold candles fixed in heaven's air:
 Let them say more that like of hearsay well,
 I will not praise that purpose not to sell.

 22
 My glass shall not persuade me I am old,
 So long as youth and thou are of one date,
 But when in thee time's furrows I behold,
 Then look I death my days should expiate.
 For all that beauty that doth cover thee,
 Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
 Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me,
 How can I then be elder than thou art?
 O therefore love be of thyself so wary,
 As I not for my self, but for thee will,
 Bearing thy hea
rt which I will keep so chary
 As tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
 Presume not on thy heart when mine is slain,
 Thou gav'st me thine not to give back again.

 23
 As an unperfect actor on the stage,
 Who with his fear is put beside his part,
 Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,
 Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart;
 So I for fear of trust, forget to say,
 The perfect ceremony of love's rite,
 And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,
 O'ercharged with burthen of mine own love's might:
 O let my looks be then the eloquence,
 And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
 Who plead for love, and look for recompense,
 More than that tongue that more hath more expressed.
 O learn to read what silent love hath writ,
 To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.

 24
 Mine eye hath played the painter and hath stelled,
 Thy beauty's form in table of my heart,
 My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
 And perspective it is best painter's art.
 For through the painter must you see his skill,
 To find where your true image pictured lies,
 Which in my bosom's shop is hanging still,
 That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes:
 Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done,
 Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for me
 Are windows to my breast, where-through the sun
 Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee;
 Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art,
 They draw but what they see, know not the heart.

 25
 Let those who are in favour with their stars,
 Of public honour and proud titles boast,
 Whilst I whom fortune of such triumph bars
 Unlooked for joy in that I honour most;
 Great princes' favourites their fair leaves spread,
 But as the marigold at the sun's eye,
 And in themselves their pride lies buried,
 For at a frown they in their glory die.
 The painful warrior famoused for fight,
 After a thousand victories once foiled,
 Is from the book of honour razed quite,
 And all the rest forgot for which he toiled:
 Then happy I that love and am beloved
 Where I may not remov
e nor be removed.

 26
 Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
 Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit;
 To thee I send this written embassage
 To witness duty, not to show my wit.
 Duty so great, which wit so poor as mine
 May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it;
 But that I hope some good conceit of thine
 In thy soul's thought (all naked) will bestow it:
 Till whatsoever star that guides my moving,
 Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
 And puts apparel on my tattered loving,
 To show me worthy of thy sweet respect,
 Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee,
 Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.

 27
 Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,
 The dear respose for limbs with travel tired,
 But then begins a journey in my head
 To work my mind, when body's work's expired.
 For then my thoughts (from far where I abide)
 Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
 And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,
 Looking on darkness which the blind do see.
 Save that my soul's imaginary sight
 Presents thy shadow to my sightless view,
 Which like a jewel (hung in ghastly night)
 Makes black night beauteous, and her old face new.
 Lo thus by day my limbs, by night my mind,
 For thee, and for my self, no quiet find.

 28
 How can I then return in happy plight
 That am debarred the benefit of rest?
 When day's oppression is not eased by night,
 But day by night and night by day oppressed.
 And each (though enemies to either's reign)
 Do in consent shake hands to torture me,
 The one by toil, the other to complain
 How far I toil, still farther off from thee.
 I tell the day to please him thou art bright,
 And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven:
 So flatter I the swart-complexioned night,
 When sparkling stars twire not thou gild'st the even.
 But day doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
 And night doth nightly make grief's length seem stronger

 29
 When in disgrace with Fortune and men's eyes,
 I all alone beweep my outcast state,
 And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
 And look upon
 my self and curse my fate,
 Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
 Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
 Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope,
 With what I most enjoy contented least,
 Yet in these thoughts my self almost despising,
 Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
 (Like to the lark at break of day arising
 From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven's gate,
 For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,
 That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

 30
 When to the sessions of sweet silent thought,
 I summon up remembrance of things past,
 I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought,
 And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste:
 Then can I drown an eye (unused to flow)
 For precious friends hid in death's dateless night,
 And weep afresh love's long since cancelled woe,
 And moan th' expense of many a vanished sight.
 Then can I grieve at grievances foregone,
 And heavily from woe to woe tell o'er
 The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,
 Which I new pay as if not paid before.
 But if the while I think on thee (dear friend)
 All losses are restored, and sorrows end.

 31
 Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,
 Which I by lacking have supposed dead,
 And there reigns love and all love's loving parts,
 And all those friends which I thought buried.
 How many a holy and obsequious tear
 Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
 As interest of the dead, which now appear,
 But things removed that hidden in thee lie.
 Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
 Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
 Who all their parts of me to thee did give,
 That due of many, now is thine alone.
 Their images I loved, I view in thee,
 And thou (all they) hast all the all of me.

 32
 If thou survive my well-contented day,
 When that churl death my bones with dust shall cover
 And shalt by fortune once more re-survey
 These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover:
 Compare them with the bett'ring of the time,
 And though they be outstripped by every pen,
 Reserve them for my
 love, not for their rhyme,
 Exceeded by the height of happier men.
 O then vouchsafe me but this loving thought,
 'Had my friend's Muse grown with this growing age,
 A dearer birth than this his love had brought
 To march in ranks of better equipage:
 But since he died and poets better prove,
 Theirs for their style I'll read, his for his love'.

 33
 Full many a glorious morning have I seen,
 Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,
 Kissing with golden face the meadows green;
 Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy:
 Anon permit the basest clouds to ride,
 With ugly rack on his celestial face,
 And from the forlorn world his visage hide
 Stealing unseen to west with this disgrace:
 Even so my sun one early morn did shine,
 With all triumphant splendour on my brow,
 But out alack, he was but one hour mine,
 The region cloud hath masked him from me now.
 Yet him for this, my love no whit disdaineth,
 Suns of the world may stain, when heaven's sun staineth.

 34
 Why didst thou promise such a beauteous day,
 And make me travel forth without my cloak,
 To let base clouds o'ertake me in my way,
 Hiding thy brav'ry in their rotten smoke?
 'Tis not enough that through the cloud thou break,
 To dry the rain on my storm-beaten face,
 For no man well of such a salve can speak,
 That heals the wound, and cures not the disgrace:
 Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief,
 Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss,
 Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
 To him that bears the strong offence's cross.
 Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
 And they are rich, and ransom all ill deeds.

 35
 No more be grieved at that which thou hast done,
 Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud,
 Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,
 And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
 All men make faults, and even I in this,
 Authorizing thy trespass with compare,
 My self corrupting salving thy amiss,
 Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are:
 For to thy sensual fault I bring in sense,
 Thy adverse pa
rty is thy advocate,
 And 'gainst my self a lawful plea commence:
 Such civil war is in my love and hate,
 That I an accessary needs must be,
 To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.

 36
 Let me confess that we two must be twain,
 Although our undivided loves are one:
 So shall those blots that do with me remain,
 Without thy help, by me be borne alone.
 In our two loves there is but one respect,
 Though in our lives a separable spite,
 Which though it alter not love's sole effect,
 Yet doth it steal sweet hours from love's delight.
 I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
 Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
 Nor thou with public kindness honour me,
 Unless thou take that honour from thy name:
 But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
 As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.

 37
 As a decrepit father takes delight,
 To see his active child do deeds of youth,
 So I, made lame by Fortune's dearest spite
 Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.
 For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
 Or any of these all, or all, or more
 Entitled in thy parts, do crowned sit,
 I make my love engrafted to this store:
 So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised,
 Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give,
 That I in thy abundance am sufficed,
 And by a part of all thy glory live:
 Look what is best, that best I wish in thee,
 This wish I have, then ten times happy me.

 38
 How can my muse want subject to invent
 While thou dost breathe that pour'st into my verse,
 Thine own sweet argument, too excellent,
 For every vulgar paper to rehearse?
 O give thy self the thanks if aught in me,
 Worthy perusal stand against thy sight,
 For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee,
 When thou thy self dost give invention light?
 Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times more in worth
 Than those old nine which rhymers invocate,
 And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
 Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
 If my slight muse do please these curious days,
 The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.

 39

 O how thy worth with manners may I sing,
 When thou art all the better part of me?
 What can mine own praise to mine own self bring:
 And what is't but mine own when I praise thee?
 Even for this, let us divided live,
 And our dear love lose name of single one,
 That by this separation I may give:
 That due to thee which thou deserv'st alone:
 O absence what a torment wouldst thou prove,
 Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave,
 To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
 Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive.
 And that thou teachest how to make one twain,
 By praising him here who doth hence remain.

 40
 Take all my loves, my love, yea take them all,
 What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
 No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call,
 All mine was thine, before thou hadst this more:
 Then if for my love, thou my love receivest,
 I cannot blame thee, for my love thou usest,
 But yet be blamed, if thou thy self deceivest
 By wilful taste of what thy self refusest.
 I do forgive thy robbery gentle thief
 Although thou steal thee all my poverty:
 And yet love knows it is a greater grief
 To bear greater wrong, than hate's known injury.
 Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
 Kill me with spites yet we must not be foes.

 41
 Those pretty wrongs that liberty commits,
 When I am sometime absent from thy heart,
 Thy beauty, and thy years full well befits,
 For still temptation follows where thou art.
 Gentle thou art, and therefore to be won,
 Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed.
 And when a woman woos, what woman's son,
 Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed?
 Ay me, but yet thou mightst my seat forbear,
 And chide thy beauty, and thy straying youth,
 Who lead thee in their riot even there
 Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth:
 Hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
 Thine by thy beauty being false to me.

 42
 That thou hast her it is not all my grief,
 And yet it may be said I loved her dearly,
 That she hath thee is of my wailing chief,
 A lo
ss in love that touches me more nearly.
 Loving offenders thus I will excuse ye,
 Thou dost love her, because thou know'st I love her,
 And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
 Suff'ring my friend for my sake to approve her.
 If I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
 And losing her, my friend hath found that loss,
 Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
 And both for my sake lay on me this cross,
 But here's the joy, my friend and I are one,
 Sweet flattery, then she loves but me alone.

 43
 When most I wink then do mine eyes best see,
 For all the day they view things unrespected,
 But when I sleep, in dreams they look on thee,
 And darkly bright, are bright in dark directed.
 Then thou whose shadow shadows doth make bright
 How would thy shadow's form, form happy show,
 To the clear day with thy much clearer light,
 When to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!
 How would (I say) mine eyes be blessed made,
 By looking on thee in the living day,
 When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade,
 Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth stay!
 All days are nights to see till I see thee,
 And nights bright days when dreams do show thee me.

 44
 If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,
 Injurious distance should not stop my way,
 For then despite of space I would be brought,
 From limits far remote, where thou dost stay,
 No matter then although my foot did stand
 Upon the farthest earth removed from thee,
 For nimble thought can jump both sea and land,
 As soon as think the place where he would be.
 But ah, thought kills me that I am not thought
 To leap large lengths of miles when thou art gone,
 But that so much of earth and water wrought,
 I must attend, time's leisure with my moan.
 Receiving nought by elements so slow,
 But heavy tears, badges of either's woe.

 45
 The other two, slight air, and purging fire,
 Are both with thee, wherever I abide,
 The first my thought, the other my desire,
 These present-absent with swift motion slide.
 For when these quicker elements are gone
 In tender emba
ssy of love to thee,
 My life being made of four, with two alone,
 Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy.
 Until life's composition be recured,
 By those swift messengers returned from thee,
 Who even but now come back again assured,
 Of thy fair health, recounting it to me.
 This told, I joy, but then no longer glad,
 I send them back again and straight grow sad.

 46
 Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,
 How to divide the conquest of thy sight,
 Mine eye, my heart thy picture's sight would bar,
 My heart, mine eye the freedom of that right,
 My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,
 (A closet never pierced with crystal eyes)
 But the defendant doth that plea deny,
 And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
 To side this title is impanelled
 A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
 And by their verdict is determined
 The clear eye's moiety, and the dear heart's part.
 As thus, mine eye's due is thy outward part,
 And my heart's right, thy inward love of heart.

 47
 Betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
 And each doth good turns now unto the other,
 When that mine eye is famished for a look,
 Or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother;
 With my love's picture then my eye doth feast,
 And to the painted banquet bids my heart:
 Another time mine eye is my heart's guest,
 And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
 So either by thy picture or my love,
 Thy self away, art present still with me,
 For thou not farther than my thoughts canst move,
 And I am still with them, and they with thee.
 Or if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
 Awakes my heart, to heart's and eye's delight.

 48
 How careful was I when I took my way,
 Each trifle under truest bars to thrust,
 That to my use it might unused stay
 From hands of falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
 But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
 Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
 Thou best of dearest, and mine only care,
 Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.
 Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
 Save where tho
u art not, though I feel thou art,
 Within the gentle closure of my breast,
 From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part,
 And even thence thou wilt be stol'n I fear,
 For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.

 49
 Against that time (if ever that time come)
 When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
 When as thy love hath cast his utmost sum,
 Called to that audit by advised respects,
 Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass,
 And scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye,
 When love converted from the thing it was
 Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
 Against that time do I ensconce me here
 Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
 And this my hand, against my self uprear,
 To guard the lawful reasons on thy part,
 To leave poor me, thou hast the strength of laws,
 Since why to love, I can allege no cause.

 50
 How heavy do I journey on the way,
 When what I seek (my weary travel's end)
 Doth teach that case and that repose to say
 'Thus far the miles are measured from thy friend.'
 The beast that bears me, tired with my woe,
 Plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,
 As if by some instinct the wretch did know
 His rider loved not speed being made from thee:
 The bloody spur cannot provoke him on,
 That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,
 Which heavily he answers with a groan,
 More sharp to me than spurring to his side,
 For that same groan doth put this in my mind,
 My grief lies onward and my joy behind.

 51
 Thus can my love excuse the slow offence,
 Of my dull bearer, when from thee I speed,
 From where thou art, why should I haste me thence?
 Till I return of posting is no need.
 O what excuse will my poor beast then find,
 When swift extremity can seem but slow?
 Then should I spur though mounted on the wind,
 In winged speed no motion shall I know,
 Then can no horse with my desire keep pace,
 Therefore desire (of perfect'st love being made)
 Shall neigh (no dull flesh) in his fiery race,
 But love, for love, thus shall excuse my jade,
 Since from thee going, he went wilf
ul-slow,
 Towards thee I'll run, and give him leave to go.

 52
 So am I as the rich whose blessed key,
 Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
 The which he will not every hour survey,
 For blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
 Therefore are feasts so solemn and so rare,
 Since seldom coming in that long year set,
 Like stones of worth they thinly placed are,
 Or captain jewels in the carcanet.
 So is the time that keeps you as my chest
 Or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide,
 To make some special instant special-blest,
 By new unfolding his imprisoned pride.
 Blessed are you whose worthiness gives scope,
 Being had to triumph, being lacked to hope.

 53
 What is your substance, whereof are you made,
 That millions of strange shadows on you tend?
 Since every one, hath every one, one shade,
 And you but one, can every shadow lend:
 Describe Adonis and the counterfeit,
 Is poorly imitated after you,
 On Helen's cheek all art of beauty set,
 And you in Grecian tires are painted new:
 Speak of the spring, and foison of the year,
 The one doth shadow of your beauty show,
 The other as your bounty doth appear,
 And you in every blessed shape we know.
 In all external grace you have some part,
 But you like none, none you for constant heart.

 54
 O how much more doth beauty beauteous seem,
 By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!
 The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
 For that sweet odour, which doth in it live:
 The canker blooms have full as deep a dye,
 As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
 Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly,
 When summer's breath their masked buds discloses:
 But for their virtue only is their show,
 They live unwooed, and unrespected fade,
 Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so,
 Of their sweet deaths, are sweetest odours made:
 And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
 When that shall fade, my verse distills your truth.

 55
 Not marble, nor the gilded monuments
 Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme,
 But you shall shine more bright in thes
e contents
 Than unswept stone, besmeared with sluttish time.
 When wasteful war shall statues overturn,
 And broils root out the work of masonry,
 Nor Mars his sword, nor war's quick fire shall burn:
 The living record of your memory.
 'Gainst death, and all-oblivious enmity
 Shall you pace forth, your praise shall still find room,
 Even in the eyes of all posterity
 That wear this world out to the ending doom.
 So till the judgment that your self arise,
 You live in this, and dwell in lovers' eyes.

 56
 Sweet love renew thy force, be it not said
 Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,
 Which but to-day by feeding is allayed,
 To-morrow sharpened in his former might.
 So love be thou, although to-day thou fill
 Thy hungry eyes, even till they wink with fulness,
 To-morrow see again, and do not kill
 The spirit of love, with a perpetual dulness:
 Let this sad interim like the ocean be
 Which parts the shore, where two contracted new,
 Come daily to the banks, that when they see:
 Return of love, more blest may be the view.
 Or call it winter, which being full of care,
 Makes summer's welcome, thrice more wished, more rare.

 57
 Being your slave what should I do but tend,
 Upon the hours, and times of your desire?
 I have no precious time at all to spend;
 Nor services to do till you require.
 Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour,
 Whilst I (my sovereign) watch the clock for you,
 Nor think the bitterness of absence sour,
 When you have bid your servant once adieu.
 Nor dare I question with my jealous thought,
 Where you may be, or your affairs suppose,
 But like a sad slave stay and think of nought
 Save where you are, how happy you make those.
 So true a fool is love, that in your will,
 (Though you do any thing) he thinks no ill.

 58
 That god forbid, that made me first your slave,
 I should in thought control your times of pleasure,
 Or at your hand th' account of hours to crave,
 Being your vassal bound to stay your leisure.
 O let me suffer (being at your beck)
 Th' imprisoned absence of your li
berty,
 And patience tame to sufferance bide each check,
 Without accusing you of injury.
 Be where you list, your charter is so strong,
 That you your self may privilage your time
 To what you will, to you it doth belong,
 Your self to pardon of self-doing crime.
 I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
 Not blame your pleasure be it ill or well.

 59
 If there be nothing new, but that which is,
 Hath been before, how are our brains beguiled,
 Which labouring for invention bear amis
 The second burthen of a former child!
 O that record could with a backward look,
 Even of five hundred courses of the sun,
 Show me your image in some antique book,
 Since mind at first in character was done.
 That I might see what the old world could say,
 To this composed wonder of your frame,
 Whether we are mended, or whether better they,
 Or whether revolution be the same.
 O sure I am the wits of former days,
 To subjects worse have given admiring praise.

 60
 Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
 So do our minutes hasten to their end,
 Each changing place with that which goes before,
 In sequent toil all forwards do contend.
 Nativity once in the main of light,
 Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
 Crooked eclipses 'gainst his glory fight,
 And Time that gave, doth now his gift confound.
 Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth,
 And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,
 Feeds on the rarities of nature's truth,
 And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.
 And yet to times in hope, my verse shall stand
 Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.

 61
 Is it thy will, thy image should keep open
 My heavy eyelids to the weary night?
 Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken,
 While shadows like to thee do mock my sight?
 Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
 So far from home into my deeds to pry,
 To find out shames and idle hours in me,
 The scope and tenure of thy jealousy?
 O no, thy love though much, is not so great,
 It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
 Mine own true love
 that doth my rest defeat,
 To play the watchman ever for thy sake.
 For thee watch I, whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
 From me far off, with others all too near.

 62
 Sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye,
 And all my soul, and all my every part;
 And for this sin there is no remedy,
 It is so grounded inward in my heart.
 Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
 No shape so true, no truth of such account,
 And for my self mine own worth do define,
 As I all other in all worths surmount.
 But when my glass shows me my self indeed
 beated and chopt with tanned antiquity,
 Mine own self-love quite contrary I read:
 Self, so self-loving were iniquity.
 'Tis thee (my self) that for my self I praise,
 Painting my age with beauty of thy days.

 63
 Against my love shall be as I am now
 With Time's injurious hand crushed and o'erworn,
 When hours have drained his blood and filled his brow
 With lines and wrinkles, when his youthful morn
 Hath travelled on to age's steepy night,
 And all those beauties whereof now he's king
 Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
 Stealing away the treasure of his spring:
 For such a time do I now fortify
 Against confounding age's cruel knife,
 That he shall never cut from memory
 My sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life.
 His beauty shall in these black lines be seen,
 And they shall live, and he in them still green.

 64
 When I have seen by Time's fell hand defaced
 The rich-proud cost of outworn buried age,
 When sometime lofty towers I see down-rased,
 And brass eternal slave to mortal rage.
 When I have seen the hungry ocean gain
 Advantage on the kingdom of the shore,
 And the firm soil win of the watery main,
 Increasing store with loss, and loss with store.
 When I have seen such interchange of State,
 Or state it self confounded, to decay,
 Ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate
 That Time will come and take my love away.
 This thought is as a death which cannot choose
 But weep to have, that which it fears to lose.

 65
 Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor bou
ndless sea,
 But sad mortality o'ersways their power,
 How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
 Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
 O how shall summer's honey breath hold out,
 Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
 When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
 Nor gates of steel so strong but time decays?
 O fearful meditation, where alack,
 Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
 Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back,
 Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
 O none, unless this miracle have might,
 That in black ink my love may still shine bright.

 66
 Tired with all these for restful death I cry,
 As to behold desert a beggar born,
 And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,
 And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
 And gilded honour shamefully misplaced,
 And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
 And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,
 And strength by limping sway disabled
 And art made tongue-tied by authority,
 And folly (doctor-like) controlling skill,
 And simple truth miscalled simplicity,
 And captive good attending captain ill.
 Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,
 Save that to die, I leave my love alone.

 67
 Ah wherefore with infection should he live,
 And with his presence grace impiety,
 That sin by him advantage should achieve,
 And lace it self with his society?
 Why should false painting imitate his cheek,
 And steal dead seeming of his living hue?
 Why should poor beauty indirectly seek,
 Roses of shadow, since his rose is true?
 Why should he live, now nature bankrupt is,
 Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
 For she hath no exchequer now but his,
 And proud of many, lives upon his gains?
 O him she stores, to show what wealth she had,
 In days long since, before these last so bad.

 68
 Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn,
 When beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
 Before these bastard signs of fair were born,
 Or durst inhabit on a living brow:
 Before the golden tresses of the dead,
 The right of sepulchres, were shorn 
away,
 To live a second life on second head,
 Ere beauty's dead fleece made another gay:
 In him those holy antique hours are seen,
 Without all ornament, it self and true,
 Making no summer of another's green,
 Robbing no old to dress his beauty new,
 And him as for a map doth Nature store,
 To show false Art what beauty was of yore.

 69
 Those parts of thee that the world's eye doth view,
 Want nothing that the thought of hearts can mend:
 All tongues (the voice of souls) give thee that due,
 Uttering bare truth, even so as foes commend.
 Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
 But those same tongues that give thee so thine own,
 In other accents do this praise confound
 By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
 They look into the beauty of thy mind,
 And that in guess they measure by thy deeds,
 Then churls their thoughts (although their eyes were kind)
 To thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:
 But why thy odour matcheth not thy show,
 The soil is this, that thou dost common grow.

 70
 That thou art blamed shall not be thy defect,
 For slander's mark was ever yet the fair,
 The ornament of beauty is suspect,
 A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
 So thou be good, slander doth but approve,
 Thy worth the greater being wooed of time,
 For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,
 And thou present'st a pure unstained prime.
 Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
 Either not assailed, or victor being charged,
 Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise,
 To tie up envy, evermore enlarged,
 If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
 Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.

 71
 No longer mourn for me when I am dead,
 Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell
 Give warning to the world that I am fled
 From this vile world with vilest worms to dwell:
 Nay if you read this line, remember not,
 The hand that writ it, for I love you so,
 That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
 If thinking on me then should make you woe.
 O if (I say) you look upon this verse,
 Whe
n I (perhaps) compounded am with clay,
 Do not so much as my poor name rehearse;
 But let your love even with my life decay.
 Lest the wise world should look into your moan,
 And mock you with me after I am gone.

 72
 O lest the world should task you to recite,
 What merit lived in me that you should love
 After my death (dear love) forget me quite,
 For you in me can nothing worthy prove.
 Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
 To do more for me than mine own desert,
 And hang more praise upon deceased I,
 Than niggard truth would willingly impart:
 O lest your true love may seem false in this,
 That you for love speak well of me untrue,
 My name be buried where my body is,
 And live no more to shame nor me, nor you.
 For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
 And so should you, to love things nothing worth.

 73
 That time of year thou mayst in me behold,
 When yellow leaves, or none, or few do hang
 Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,
 Bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.
 In me thou seest the twilight of such day,
 As after sunset fadeth in the west,
 Which by and by black night doth take away,
 Death's second self that seals up all in rest.
 In me thou seest the glowing of such fire,
 That on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
 As the death-bed, whereon it must expire,
 Consumed with that which it was nourished by.
 This thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,
 To love that well, which thou must leave ere long.

 74
 But be contented when that fell arrest,
 Without all bail shall carry me away,
 My life hath in this line some interest,
 Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
 When thou reviewest this, thou dost review,
 The very part was consecrate to thee,
 The earth can have but earth, which is his due,
 My spirit is thine the better part of me,
 So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,
 The prey of worms, my body being dead,
 The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
 Too base of thee to be remembered,
 The worth of that, is that which it contains,

 And that is this, and this with thee remains.

 75
 So are you to my thoughts as food to life,
 Or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground;
 And for the peace of you I hold such strife
 As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
 Now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
 Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure,
 Now counting best to be with you alone,
 Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure,
 Sometime all full with feasting on your sight,
 And by and by clean starved for a look,
 Possessing or pursuing no delight
 Save what is had, or must from you be took.
 Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
 Or gluttoning on all, or all away.

 76
 Why is my verse so barren of new pride?
 So far from variation or quick change?
 Why with the time do I not glance aside
 To new-found methods, and to compounds strange?
 Why write I still all one, ever the same,
 And keep invention in a noted weed,
 That every word doth almost tell my name,
 Showing their birth, and where they did proceed?
 O know sweet love I always write of you,
 And you and love are still my argument:
 So all my best is dressing old words new,
 Spending again what is already spent:
 For as the sun is daily new and old,
 So is my love still telling what is told.

 77
 Thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,
 Thy dial how thy precious minutes waste,
 These vacant leaves thy mind's imprint will bear,
 And of this book, this learning mayst thou taste.
 The wrinkles which thy glass will truly show,
 Of mouthed graves will give thee memory,
 Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know,
 Time's thievish progress to eternity.
 Look what thy memory cannot contain,
 Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find
 Those children nursed, delivered from thy brain,
 To take a new acquaintance of thy mind.
 These offices, so oft as thou wilt look,
 Shall profit thee, and much enrich thy book.

 78
 So oft have I invoked thee for my muse,
 And found such fair assistance in my verse,
 As every alien pen hath got my use,
 And under thee their poes
y disperse.
 Thine eyes, that taught the dumb on high to sing,
 And heavy ignorance aloft to fly,
 Have added feathers to the learned's wing,
 And given grace a double majesty.
 Yet be most proud of that which I compile,
 Whose influence is thine, and born of thee,
 In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
 And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
 But thou art all my art, and dost advance
 As high as learning, my rude ignorance.

 79
 Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,
 My verse alone had all thy gentle grace,
 But now my gracious numbers are decayed,
 And my sick muse doth give an other place.
 I grant (sweet love) thy lovely argument
 Deserves the travail of a worthier pen,
 Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent,
 He robs thee of, and pays it thee again,
 He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word,
 From thy behaviour, beauty doth he give
 And found it in thy cheek: he can afford
 No praise to thee, but what in thee doth live.
 Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
 Since what he owes thee, thou thy self dost pay.

 80
 O how I faint when I of you do write,
 Knowing a better spirit doth use your name,
 And in the praise thereof spends all his might,
 To make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.
 But since your worth (wide as the ocean is)
 The humble as the proudest sail doth bear,
 My saucy bark (inferior far to his)
 On your broad main doth wilfully appear.
 Your shallowest help will hold me up afloat,
 Whilst he upon your soundless deep doth ride,
 Or (being wrecked) I am a worthless boat,
 He of tall building, and of goodly pride.
 Then if he thrive and I be cast away,
 The worst was this, my love was my decay.

 81
 Or I shall live your epitaph to make,
 Or you survive when I in earth am rotten,
 From hence your memory death cannot take,
 Although in me each part will be forgotten.
 Your name from hence immortal life shall have,
 Though I (once gone) to all the world must die,
 The earth can yield me but a common grave,
 When you entombed in men's eyes shall lie,
 Your monument shall
 be my gentle verse,
 Which eyes not yet created shall o'er-read,
 And tongues to be, your being shall rehearse,
 When all the breathers of this world are dead,
 You still shall live (such virtue hath my pen)
 Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men.

 82
 I grant thou wert not married to my muse,
 And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlook
 The dedicated words which writers use
 Of their fair subject, blessing every book.
 Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
 Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
 And therefore art enforced to seek anew,
 Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.
 And do so love, yet when they have devised,
 What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
 Thou truly fair, wert truly sympathized,
 In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend.
 And their gross painting might be better used,
 Where cheeks need blood, in thee it is abused.

 83
 I never saw that you did painting need,
 And therefore to your fair no painting set,
 I found (or thought I found) you did exceed,
 That barren tender of a poet's debt:
 And therefore have I slept in your report,
 That you your self being extant well might show,
 How far a modern quill doth come too short,
 Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.
 This silence for my sin you did impute,
 Which shall be most my glory being dumb,
 For I impair not beauty being mute,
 When others would give life, and bring a tomb.
 There lives more life in one of your fair eyes,
 Than both your poets can in praise devise.

 84
 Who is it that says most, which can say more,
 Than this rich praise, that you alone, are you?
 In whose confine immured is the store,
 Which should example where your equal grew.
 Lean penury within that pen doth dwell,
 That to his subject lends not some small glory,
 But he that writes of you, if he can tell,
 That you are you, so dignifies his story.
 Let him but copy what in you is writ,
 Not making worse what nature made so clear,
 And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,
 Making his style admired every where.
 
You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,
 Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.

 85
 My tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still,
 While comments of your praise richly compiled,
 Reserve their character with golden quill,
 And precious phrase by all the Muses filed.
 I think good thoughts, whilst other write good words,
 And like unlettered clerk still cry Amen,
 To every hymn that able spirit affords,
 In polished form of well refined pen.
 Hearing you praised, I say 'tis so, 'tis true,
 And to the most of praise add something more,
 But that is in my thought, whose love to you
 (Though words come hindmost) holds his rank before,
 Then others, for the breath of words respect,
 Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.

 86
 Was it the proud full sail of his great verse,
 Bound for the prize of (all too precious) you,
 That did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,
 Making their tomb the womb wherein they grew?
 Was it his spirit, by spirits taught to write,
 Above a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
 No, neither he, nor his compeers by night
 Giving him aid, my verse astonished.
 He nor that affable familiar ghost
 Which nightly gulls him with intelligence,
 As victors of my silence cannot boast,
 I was not sick of any fear from thence.
 But when your countenance filled up his line,
 Then lacked I matter, that enfeebled mine.

 87
 Farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing,
 And like enough thou know'st thy estimate,
 The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing:
 My bonds in thee are all determinate.
 For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
 And for that riches where is my deserving?
 The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,
 And so my patent back again is swerving.
 Thy self thou gav'st, thy own worth then not knowing,
 Or me to whom thou gav'st it, else mistaking,
 So thy great gift upon misprision growing,
 Comes home again, on better judgement making.
 Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
 In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.

 88
 When thou shalt b
e disposed to set me light,
 And place my merit in the eye of scorn,
 Upon thy side, against my self I'll fight,
 And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn:
 With mine own weakness being best acquainted,
 Upon thy part I can set down a story
 Of faults concealed, wherein I am attainted:
 That thou in losing me, shalt win much glory:
 And I by this will be a gainer too,
 For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
 The injuries that to my self I do,
 Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
 Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
 That for thy right, my self will bear all wrong.

 89
 Say that thou didst forsake me for some fault,
 And I will comment upon that offence,
 Speak of my lameness, and I straight will halt:
 Against thy reasons making no defence.
 Thou canst not (love) disgrace me half so ill,
 To set a form upon desired change,
 As I'll my self disgrace, knowing thy will,
 I will acquaintance strangle and look strange:
 Be absent from thy walks and in my tongue,
 Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
 Lest I (too much profane) should do it wronk:
 And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
 For thee, against my self I'll vow debate,
 For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.

 90
 Then hate me when thou wilt, if ever, now,
 Now while the world is bent my deeds to cross,
 join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
 And do not drop in for an after-loss:
 Ah do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
 Come in the rearward of a conquered woe,
 Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
 To linger out a purposed overthrow.
 If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
 When other petty griefs have done their spite,
 But in the onset come, so shall I taste
 At first the very worst of fortune's might.
 And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
 Compared with loss of thee, will not seem so.

 91
 Some glory in their birth, some in their skill,
 Some in their wealth, some in their body's force,
 Some in their garments though new-fangled ill:
 Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their hors
e.
 And every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,
 Wherein it finds a joy above the rest,
 But these particulars are not my measure,
 All these I better in one general best.
 Thy love is better than high birth to me,
 Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' costs,
 Of more delight than hawks and horses be:
 And having thee, of all men's pride I boast.
 Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take,
 All this away, and me most wretchcd make.

 92
 But do thy worst to steal thy self away,
 For term of life thou art assured mine,
 And life no longer than thy love will stay,
 For it depends upon that love of thine.
 Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs,
 When in the least of them my life hath end,
 I see, a better state to me belongs
 Than that, which on thy humour doth depend.
 Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
 Since that my life on thy revolt doth lie,
 O what a happy title do I find,
 Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
 But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
 Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.

 93
 So shall I live, supposing thou art true,
 Like a deceived husband, so love's face,
 May still seem love to me, though altered new:
 Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.
 For there can live no hatred in thine eye,
 Therefore in that I cannot know thy change,
 In many's looks, the false heart's history
 Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
 But heaven in thy creation did decree,
 That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell,
 Whate'er thy thoughts, or thy heart's workings be,
 Thy looks should nothing thence, but sweetness tell.
 How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
 If thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.

 94
 They that have power to hurt, and will do none,
 That do not do the thing, they most do show,
 Who moving others, are themselves as stone,
 Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow:
 They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,
 And husband nature's riches from expense,
 Tibey are the lords and owners of their faces,
 Others, but stewards of their excel
lence:
 The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
 Though to it self, it only live and die,
 But if that flower with base infection meet,
 The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
 For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds,
 Lilies that fester, smell far worse than weeds.

 95
 How sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame,
 Which like a canker in the fragrant rose,
 Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!
 O in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose!
 That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
 (Making lascivious comments on thy sport)
 Cannot dispraise, but in a kind of praise,
 Naming thy name, blesses an ill report.
 O what a mansion have those vices got,
 Which for their habitation chose out thee,
 Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
 And all things turns to fair, that eyes can see!
 Take heed (dear heart) of this large privilege,
 The hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge.

 96
 Some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness,
 Some say thy grace is youth and gentle sport,
 Both grace and faults are loved of more and less:
 Thou mak'st faults graces, that to thee resort:
 As on the finger of a throned queen,
 The basest jewel will be well esteemed:
 So are those errors that in thee are seen,
 To truths translated, and for true things deemed.
 How many lambs might the stern wolf betray,
 If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
 How many gazers mightst thou lead away,
 if thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
 But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
 As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.

 97
 How like a winter hath my absence been
 From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
 What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!
 What old December's bareness everywhere!
 And yet this time removed was summer's time,
 The teeming autumn big with rich increase,
 Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
 Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease:
 Yet this abundant issue seemed to me
 But hope of orphans, and unfathered fruit,
 For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,

 And thou away, the very birds are mute.
 Or if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer,
 That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.

 98
 From you have I been absent in the spring,
 When proud-pied April (dressed in all his trim)
 Hath put a spirit of youth in every thing:
 That heavy Saturn laughed and leaped with him.
 Yet nor the lays of birds, nor the sweet smell
 Of different flowers in odour and in hue,
 Could make me any summer's story tell:
 Or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew:
 Nor did I wonder at the lily's white,
 Nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose,
 They were but sweet, but figures of delight:
 Drawn after you, you pattern of all those.
 Yet seemed it winter still, and you away,
 As with your shadow I with these did play.

 99
 The forward violet thus did I chide,
 Sweet thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells,
 If not from my love's breath? The purple pride
 Which on thy soft check for complexion dwells,
 In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
 The lily I condemned for thy hand,
 And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair,
 The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,
 One blushing shame, another white despair:
 A third nor red, nor white, had stol'n of both,
 And to his robbery had annexed thy breath,
 But for his theft in pride of all his growth
 A vengeful canker eat him up to death.
 More flowers I noted, yet I none could see,
 But sweet, or colour it had stol'n from thee.

 100
 Where art thou Muse that thou forget'st so long,
 To speak of that which gives thee all thy might?
 Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song,
 Darkening thy power to lend base subjects light?
 Return forgetful Muse, and straight redeem,
 In gentle numbers time so idly spent,
 Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem,
 And gives thy pen both skill and argument.
 Rise resty Muse, my love's sweet face survey,
 If time have any wrinkle graven there,
 If any, be a satire to decay,
 And make time's spoils despised everywhere.
 Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life,
 So 
thou prevent'st his scythe, and crooked knife.

 101
 O truant Muse what shall be thy amends,
 For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?
 Both truth and beauty on my love depends:
 So dost thou too, and therein dignified:
 Make answer Muse, wilt thou not haply say,
 'Truth needs no colour with his colour fixed,
 Beauty no pencil, beauty's truth to lay:
 But best is best, if never intermixed'?
 Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
 Excuse not silence so, for't lies in thee,
 To make him much outlive a gilded tomb:
 And to be praised of ages yet to be.
 Then do thy office Muse, I teach thee how,
 To make him seem long hence, as he shows now.

 102
 My love is strengthened though more weak in seeming,
 I love not less, though less the show appear,
 That love is merchandized, whose rich esteeming,
 The owner's tongue doth publish every where.
 Our love was new, and then but in the spring,
 When I was wont to greet it with my lays,
 As Philomel in summer's front doth sing,
 And stops her pipe in growth of riper days:
 Not that the summer is less pleasant now
 Than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,
 But that wild music burthens every bough,
 And sweets grown common lose their dear delight.
 Therefore like her, I sometime hold my tongue:
 Because I would not dull you with my song.

 103
 Alack what poverty my muse brings forth,
 That having such a scope to show her pride,
 The argument all bare is of more worth
 Than when it hath my added praise beside.
 O blame me not if I no more can write!
 Look in your glass and there appears a face,
 That over-goes my blunt invention quite,
 Dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace.
 Were it not sinful then striving to mend,
 To mar the subject that before was well?
 For to no other pass my verses tend,
 Than of your graces and your gifts to tell.
 And more, much more than in my verse can sit,
 Your own glass shows you, when you look in it.

 104
 To me fair friend you never can be old,
 For as you were when first your eye I eyed,
 Such seems your beauty still: th
ree winters cold,
 Have from the forests shook three summers' pride,
 Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned,
 In process of the seasons have I seen,
 Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,
 Since first I saw you fresh which yet are green.
 Ah yet doth beauty like a dial hand,
 Steal from his figure, and no pace perceived,
 So your sweet hue, which methinks still doth stand
 Hath motion, and mine eye may be deceived.
 For fear of which, hear this thou age unbred,
 Ere you were born was beauty's summer dead.

 105
 Let not my love be called idolatry,
 Nor my beloved as an idol show,
 Since all alike my songs and praises be
 To one, of one, still such, and ever so.
 Kind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,
 Still constant in a wondrous excellence,
 Therefore my verse to constancy confined,
 One thing expressing, leaves out difference.
 Fair, kind, and true, is all my argument,
 Fair, kind, and true, varying to other words,
 And in this change is my invention spent,
 Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.
 Fair, kind, and true, have often lived alone.
 Which three till now, never kept seat in one.

 106
 When in the chronicle of wasted time,
 I see descriptions of the fairest wights,
 And beauty making beautiful old rhyme,
 In praise of ladies dead, and lovely knights,
 Then in the blazon of sweet beauty's best,
 Of hand, of foot, of lip, of eye, of brow,
 I see their antique pen would have expressed,
 Even such a beauty as you master now.
 So all their praises are but prophecies
 Of this our time, all you prefiguring,
 And for they looked but with divining eyes,
 They had not skill enough your worth to sing:
 For we which now behold these present days,
 Have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.

 107
 Not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul,
 Of the wide world, dreaming on things to come,
 Can yet the lease of my true love control,
 Supposed as forfeit to a confined doom.
 The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured,
 And the sad augurs mock their own presage,
 Incertainties now 
crown themselves assured,
 And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
 Now with the drops of this most balmy time,
 My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
 Since spite of him I'll live in this poor rhyme,
 While he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes.
 And thou in this shalt find thy monument,
 When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent.

 108
 What's in the brain that ink may character,
 Which hath not figured to thee my true spirit,
 What's new to speak, what now to register,
 That may express my love, or thy dear merit?
 Nothing sweet boy, but yet like prayers divine,
 I must each day say o'er the very same,
 Counting no old thing old, thou mine, I thine,
 Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.
 So that eternal love in love's fresh case,
 Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
 Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
 But makes antiquity for aye his page,
 Finding the first conceit of love there bred,
 Where time and outward form would show it dead.

 109
 O never say that I was false of heart,
 Though absence seemed my flame to qualify,
 As easy might I from my self depart,
 As from my soul which in thy breast doth lie:
 That is my home of love, if I have ranged,
 Like him that travels I return again,
 Just to the time, not with the time exchanged,
 So that my self bring water for my stain,
 Never believe though in my nature reigned,
 All frailties that besiege all kinds of blood,
 That it could so preposterously be stained,
 To leave for nothing all thy sum of good:
 For nothing this wide universe I call,
 Save thou my rose, in it thou art my all.

 110
 Alas 'tis true, I have gone here and there,
 And made my self a motley to the view,
 Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,
 Made old offences of affections new.
 Most true it is, that I have looked on truth
 Askance and strangely: but by all above,
 These blenches gave my heart another youth,
 And worse essays proved thee my best of love.
 Now all is done, have what shall have no end,
 Mine appetite I never more wil
l grind
 On newer proof, to try an older friend,
 A god in love, to whom I am confined.
 Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
 Even to thy pure and most most loving breast.

 111
 O for my sake do you with Fortune chide,
 The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
 That did not better for my life provide,
 Than public means which public manners breeds.
 Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,
 And almost thence my nature is subdued
 To what it works in, like the dyer's hand:
 Pity me then, and wish I were renewed,
 Whilst like a willing patient I will drink,
 Potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection,
 No bitterness that I will bitter think,
 Nor double penance to correct correction.
 Pity me then dear friend, and I assure ye,
 Even that your pity is enough to cure me.

 112
 Your love and pity doth th' impression fill,
 Which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow,
 For what care I who calls me well or ill,
 So you o'er-green my bad, my good allow?
 You are my all the world, and I must strive,
 To know my shames and praises from your tongue,
 None else to me, nor I to none alive,
 That my steeled sense or changes right or wrong.
 In so profound abysm I throw all care
 Of others' voices, that my adder's sense,
 To critic and to flatterer stopped are:
 Mark how with my neglect I do dispense.
 You are so strongly in my purpose bred,
 That all the world besides methinks are dead.

 113
 Since I left you, mine eye is in my mind,
 And that which governs me to go about,
 Doth part his function, and is partly blind,
 Seems seeing, but effectually is out:
 For it no form delivers to the heart
 Of bird, of flower, or shape which it doth latch,
 Of his quick objects hath the mind no part,
 Nor his own vision holds what it doth catch:
 For if it see the rud'st or gentlest sight,
 The most sweet favour or deformed'st creature,
 The mountain, or the sea, the day, or night:
 The crow, or dove, it shapes them to your feature.
 Incapable of more, replete with you,
 My most true mind thus maketh mine untrue.

 114
 
Or whether doth my mind being crowned with you
 Drink up the monarch's plague this flattery?
 Or whether shall I say mine eye saith true,
 And that your love taught it this alchemy?
 To make of monsters, and things indigest,
 Such cherubins as your sweet self resemble,
 Creating every bad a perfect best
 As fast as objects to his beams assemble:
 O 'tis the first, 'tis flattery in my seeing,
 And my great mind most kingly drinks it up,
 Mine eye well knows what with his gust is 'greeing,
 And to his palate doth prepare the cup.
 If it be poisoned, 'tis the lesser sin,
 That mine eye loves it and doth first begin.

 115
 Those lines that I before have writ do lie,
 Even those that said I could not love you dearer,
 Yet then my judgment knew no reason why,
 My most full flame should afterwards burn clearer,
 But reckoning time, whose millioned accidents
 Creep in 'twixt vows, and change decrees of kings,
 Tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st intents,
 Divert strong minds to the course of alt'ring things:
 Alas why fearing of time's tyranny,
 Might I not then say 'Now I love you best,'
 When I was certain o'er incertainty,
 Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?
 Love is a babe, then might I not say so
 To give full growth to that which still doth grow.

 116
 Let me not to the marriage of true minds
 Admit impediments, love is not love
 Which alters when it alteration finds,
 Or bends with the remover to remove.
 O no, it is an ever-fixed mark
 That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
 It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
 Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
 Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
 Within his bending sickle's compass come,
 Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
 But bears it out even to the edge of doom:
 If this be error and upon me proved,
 I never writ, nor no man ever loved.

 117
 Accuse me thus, that I have scanted all,
 Wherein I should your great deserts repay,
 Forgot upon your dearest love to call,
 Whereto all bonds do tie me day by day
,
 That I have frequent been with unknown minds,
 And given to time your own dear-purchased right,
 That I have hoisted sail to all the winds
 Which should transport me farthest from your sight.
 Book both my wilfulness and errors down,
 And on just proof surmise, accumulate,
 Bring me within the level of your frown,
 But shoot not at me in your wakened hate:
 Since my appeal says I did strive to prove
 The constancy and virtue of your love.

 118
 Like as to make our appetite more keen
 With eager compounds we our palate urge,
 As to prevent our maladies unseen,
 We sicken to shun sickness when we purge.
 Even so being full of your ne'er-cloying sweetness,
 To bitter sauces did I frame my feeding;
 And sick of welfare found a kind of meetness,
 To be diseased ere that there was true needing.
 Thus policy in love t' anticipate
 The ills that were not, grew to faults assured,
 And brought to medicine a healthful state
 Which rank of goodness would by ill be cured.
 But thence I learn and find the lesson true,
 Drugs poison him that so feil sick of you.

 119
 What potions have I drunk of Siren tears
 Distilled from limbecks foul as hell within,
 Applying fears to hopes, and hopes to fears,
 Still losing when I saw my self to win!
 What wretched errors hath my heart committed,
 Whilst it hath thought it self so blessed never!
 How have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
 In the distraction of this madding fever!
 O benefit of ill, now I find true
 That better is, by evil still made better.
 And ruined love when it is built anew
 Grows fairer than at first, more strong, far greater.
 So I return rebuked to my content,
 And gain by ills thrice more than I have spent.

 120
 That you were once unkind befriends me now,
 And for that sorrow, which I then did feel,
 Needs must I under my transgression bow,
 Unless my nerves were brass or hammered steel.
 For if you were by my unkindness shaken
 As I by yours, y'have passed a hell of time,
 And I a tyrant have no leisure taken
 To weigh how once I suffered in your
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Suzanne Shell, Sjaani and PG Distributed Proofreaders

CARMILLA

J. Sheridan LeFanu

1872

PROLOGUE

_Upon a paper attached to the Narrative which follows, Doctor Hesselius
has written a rather elaborate note, which he accompanies with a
reference to his Essay on the strange subject which the MS. illuminates.

This mysterious subject he treats, in that Essay, with his usual
learning and acumen, and with remarkable directness and condensation. It
will form but one volume of the series of that extraordinary man's
collected papers.

As I publish the case, in this volume, simply to interest the "laity," I
shall forestall the intelligent lady, who relates it, in nothing; and
after due consideration, I have determined, therefore, to abstain from
presenting any precis of the learned Doctor's reasoning, or extract from
his statement on a subject which he describes as "involving, not
improbably, some of the profoundest arcana of our dual existence, and
its intermediates."

I was anxious on discovering this paper, to reopen the correspondence
commenced by Doctor Hesselius, so many years before, with a person so
clever and careful as his informant seems to have been. Much to my
regret, however, I found that she had died in the interval.

She, probably, could have added little to the Narrative _which she
communicates in the following pages, with, so far as I can pronounce,
such conscientious particularity_.

I

_An Early Fright_

In Styria, we, though by no means magnificent people, inhabit a castle,
or schloss. A small income, in that part of the world, goes a great way.
Eight or nine hundred a year does wonders. Scantily enough ours would
have answered among wealthy people at home. My father is English, and I
bear an English name, although I never saw England. But here, in this
lonely and primitive place, where everything is so marvelously cheap, I
really don't see how ever so much more money would at all materially add
to our comforts, or even luxuries.

My father was in the Austrian service, and retired upon 
a pension and
his patrimony, and purchased this feudal residence, and the small estate
on which it stands, a bargain.

Nothing can be more picturesque or solitary. It stands on a slight
eminence in a forest. The road, very old and narrow, passes in front of
its drawbridge, never raised in my time, and its moat, stocked with
perch, and sailed over by many swans, and floating on its surface white
fleets of water lilies.

Over all this the schloss shows its many-windowed front; its towers,
and its Gothic chapel.

The forest opens in an irregular and very picturesque glade before its
gate, and at the right a steep Gothic bridge carries the road over a
stream that winds in deep shadow through the wood. I have said that this
is a very lonely place. Judge whether I say truth. Looking from the hall
door towards the road, the forest in which our castle stands extends
fifteen miles to the right, and twelve to the left. The nearest
inhabited village is about seven of your English miles to the left. The
nearest inhabited schloss of any historic associations, is that of old
General Spielsdorf, nearly twenty miles away to the right.

I have said "the nearest _inhabited_ village," because there is, only
three miles westward, that is to say in the direction of General
Spielsdorf's schloss, a ruined village, with its quaint little church,
now roofless, in the aisle of which are the moldering tombs of the proud
family of Karnstein, now extinct, who once owned the equally desolate
chateau which, in the thick of the forest, overlooks the silent ruins
of the town.

Respecting the cause of the desertion of this striking and melancholy
spot, there is a legend which I shall relate to you another time.

I must tell you now, how very small is the party who constitute the
inhabitants of our castle. I don't include servants, or those dependents
who occupy rooms in the buildings attached to the schloss. Listen, and
wonder! My father, who is the kindest man on earth, but growing old; and
I, at the date of my story, only nineteen. Eight years 
have passed
since then.

I and my father constituted the family at the schloss. My mother, a
Styrian lady, died in my infancy, but I had a good-natured governess,
who had been with me from, I might almost say, my infancy. I could not
remember the time when her fat, benignant face was not a familiar
picture in my memory.

This was Madame Perrodon, a native of Berne, whose care and good nature
now in part supplied to me the loss of my mother, whom I do not even
remember, so early I lost her. She made a third at our little dinner
party. There was a fourth, Mademoiselle De Lafontaine, a lady such as
you term, I believe, a "finishing governess." She spoke French and
German, Madame Perrodon French and broken English, to which my father
and I added English, which, partly to prevent its becoming a lost
language among us, and partly from patriotic motives, we spoke every
day. The consequence was a Babel, at which strangers used to laugh, and
which I shall make no attempt to reproduce in this narrative. And there
were two or three young lady friends besides, pretty nearly of my own
age, who were occasional visitors, for longer or shorter terms; and
these visits I sometimes returned.

These were our regular social resources; but of course there were chance
visits from "neighbors" of only five or six leagues distance. My life
was, notwithstanding, rather a solitary one, I can assure you.

My gouvernantes had just so much control over me as you might conjecture
such sage persons would have in the case of a rather spoiled girl, whose
only parent allowed her pretty nearly her own way in everything.

The first occurrence in my existence, which produced a terrible
impression upon my mind, which, in fact, never has been effaced, was one
of the very earliest incidents of my life which I can recollect. Some
people will think it so trifling that it should not be recorded here.
You will see, however, by-and-by, why I mention it. The nursery, as it
was called, though I had it all to myself, was a large room in the upper
story of the ca
stle, with a steep oak roof. I can't have been more than
six years old, when one night I awoke, and looking round the room from
my bed, failed to see the nursery maid. Neither was my nurse there; and
I thought myself alone. I was not frightened, for I was one of those
happy children who are studiously kept in ignorance of ghost stories, of
fairy tales, and of all such lore as makes us cover up our heads when
the door cracks suddenly, or the flicker of an expiring candle makes the
shadow of a bedpost dance upon the wall, nearer to our faces. I was
vexed and insulted at finding myself, as I conceived, neglected, and I
began to whimper, preparatory to a hearty bout of roaring; when to my
surprise, I saw a solemn, but very pretty face looking at me from the
side of the bed. It was that of a young lady who was kneeling, with her
hands under the coverlet. I looked at her with a kind of pleased wonder,
and ceased whimpering. She caressed me with her hands, and lay down
beside me on the bed, and drew me towards her, smiling; I felt
immediately delightfully soothed, and fell asleep again. I was wakened
by a sensation as if two needles ran into my breast very deep at the
same moment, and I cried loudly. The lady started back, with her eyes
fixed on me, and then slipped down upon the floor, and, as I thought,
hid herself under the bed.

I was now for the first time frightened, and I yelled with all my might
and main. Nurse, nursery maid, housekeeper, all came running in, and
hearing my story, they made light of it, soothing me all they could
meanwhile. But, child as I was, I could perceive that their faces were
pale with an unwonted look of anxiety, and I saw them look under the
bed, and about the room, and peep under tables and pluck open cupboards;
and the housekeeper whispered to the nurse: "Lay your hand along that
hollow in the bed; someone _did_ lie there, so sure as you did not; the
place is still warm."

I remember the nursery maid petting me, and all three examining my
chest, where I told them I felt the puncture, 
and pronouncing that there
was no sign visible that any such thing had happened to me.

The housekeeper and the two other servants who were in charge of the
nursery, remained sitting up all night; and from that time a servant
always sat up in the nursery until I was about fourteen.

I was very nervous for a long time after this. A doctor was called in,
he was pallid and elderly. How well I remember his long saturnine face,
slightly pitted with smallpox, and his chestnut wig. For a good while,
every second day, he came and gave me medicine, which of course I hated.

The morning after I saw this apparition I was in a state of terror, and
could not bear to be left alone, daylight though it was, for a moment.

I remember my father coming up and standing at the bedside, and talking
cheerfully, and asking the nurse a number of questions, and laughing
very heartily at one of the answers; and patting me on the shoulder, and
kissing me, and telling me not to be frightened, that it was nothing but
a dream and could not hurt me.

But I was not comforted, for I knew the visit of the strange woman was
_not_ a dream; and I was _awfully_ frightened.

I was a little consoled by the nursery maid's assuring me that it was
she who had come and looked at me, and lain down beside me in the bed,
and that I must have been half-dreaming not to have known her face. But
this, though supported by the nurse, did not quite satisfy me.

I remembered, in the course of that day, a venerable old man, in a black
cassock, coming into the room with the nurse and housekeeper, and
talking a little to them, and very kindly to me; his face was very sweet
and gentle, and he told me they were going to pray, and joined my hands
together, and desired me to say, softly, while they were praying, "Lord
hear all good prayers for us, for Jesus' sake." I think these were the
very words, for I often repeated them to myself, and my nurse used for
years to make me say them in my prayers.

I remembered so well the thoughtful sweet face of that white-haired old
man, 
in his black cassock, as he stood in that rude, lofty, brown room,
with the clumsy furniture of a fashion three hundred years old about
him, and the scanty light entering its shadowy atmosphere through the
small lattice. He kneeled, and the three women with him, and he prayed
aloud with an earnest quavering voice for, what appeared to me, a long
time. I forget all my life preceding that event, and for some time after
it is all obscure also, but the scenes I have just described stand out
vivid as the isolated pictures of the phantasmagoria surrounded
by darkness.

II

_A Guest_

I am now going to tell you something so strange that it will require all
your faith in my veracity to believe my story. It is not only true,
nevertheless, but truth of which I have been an eyewitness.

It was a sweet summer evening, and my father asked me, as he sometimes
did, to take a little ramble with him along that beautiful forest vista
which I have mentioned as lying in front of the schloss.

"General Spielsdorf cannot come to us so soon as I had hoped," said my
father, as we pursued our walk.

He was to have paid us a visit of some weeks, and we had expected his
arrival next day. He was to have brought with him a young lady, his
niece and ward, Mademoiselle Rheinfeldt, whom I had never seen, but whom
I had heard described as a very charming girl, and in whose society I
had promised myself many happy days. I was more disappointed than a
young lady living in a town, or a bustling neighborhood can possibly
imagine. This visit, and the new acquaintance it promised, had furnished
my day dream for many weeks.

"And how soon does he come?" I asked.

"Not till autumn. Not for two months, I dare say," he answered. "And I
am very glad now, dear, that you never knew Mademoiselle Rheinfeldt."

"And why?" I asked, both mortified and curious.

"Because the poor young lady is dead," he replied. "I quite forgot I had
not told you, but you were not in the room when I received the General's
letter this evening."

I was very much shocked. General Spi
elsdorf had mentioned in his first
letter, six or seven weeks before, that she was not so well as he would
wish her, but there was nothing to suggest the remotest suspicion
of danger.

"Here is the General's letter," he said, handing it to me. "I am afraid
he is in great affliction; the letter appears to me to have been written
very nearly in distraction."

We sat down on a rude bench, under a group of magnificent lime trees.
The sun was setting with all its melancholy splendor behind the sylvan
horizon, and the stream that flows beside our home, and passes under the
steep old bridge I have mentioned, wound through many a group of noble
trees, almost at our feet, reflecting in its current the fading crimson
of the sky. General Spielsdorf's letter was so extraordinary, so
vehement, and in some places so self-contradictory, that I read it twice
over--the second time aloud to my father--and was still unable to
account for it, except by supposing that grief had unsettled his mind.

It said "I have lost my darling daughter, for as such I loved her.
During the last days of dear Bertha's illness I was not able to write
to you.

"Before then I had no idea of her danger. I have lost her, and now learn
_all_, too late. She died in the peace of innocence, and in the glorious
hope of a blessed futurity. The fiend who betrayed our infatuated
hospitality has done it all. I thought I was receiving into my house
innocence, gaiety, a charming companion for my lost Bertha. Heavens!
what a fool have I been!

"I thank God my child died without a suspicion of the cause of her
sufferings. She is gone without so much as conjecturing the nature of
her illness, and the accursed passion of the agent of all this misery. I
devote my remaining days to tracking and extinguishing a monster. I am
told I may hope to accomplish my righteous and merciful purpose. At
present there is scarcely a gleam of light to guide me. I curse my
conceited incredulity, my despicable affectation of superiority, my
blindness, my obstinacy--all--too late. I cannot 
write or talk
collectedly now. I am distracted. So soon as I shall have a little
recovered, I mean to devote myself for a time to enquiry, which may
possibly lead me as far as Vienna. Some time in the autumn, two months
hence, or earlier if I live, I will see you--that is, if you permit me;
I will then tell you all that I scarce dare put upon paper now.
Farewell. Pray for me, dear friend."

In these terms ended this strange letter. Though I had never seen Bertha
Rheinfeldt my eyes filled with tears at the sudden intelligence; I was
startled, as well as profoundly disappointed.

The sun had now set, and it was twilight by the time I had returned the
General's letter to my father.

It was a soft clear evening, and we loitered, speculating upon the
possible meanings of the violent and incoherent sentences which I had
just been reading. We had nearly a mile to walk before reaching the road
that passes the schloss in front, and by that time the moon was shining
brilliantly. At the drawbridge we met Madame Perrodon and Mademoiselle
De Lafontaine, who had come out, without their bonnets, to enjoy the
exquisite moonlight.

We heard their voices gabbling in animated dialogue as we approached. We
joined them at the drawbridge, and turned about to admire with them the
beautiful scene.

The glade through which we had just walked lay before us. At our left
the narrow road wound away under clumps of lordly trees, and was lost to
sight amid the thickening forest. At the right the same road crosses the
steep and picturesque bridge, near which stands a ruined tower which
once guarded that pass; and beyond the bridge an abrupt eminence rises,
covered with trees, and showing in the shadows some grey
ivy-clustered rocks.

Over the sward and low grounds a thin film of mist was stealing like
smoke, marking the distances with a transparent veil; and here and there
we could see the river faintly flashing in the moonlight.

No softer, sweeter scene could be imagined. The news I had just heard
made it melancholy; but nothing could disturb
 its character of profound
serenity, and the enchanted glory and vagueness of the prospect.

My father, who enjoyed the picturesque, and I, stood looking in silence
over the expanse beneath us. The two good governesses, standing a little
way behind us, discoursed upon the scene, and were eloquent upon
the moon.

Madame Perrodon was fat, middle-aged, and romantic, and talked and
sighed poetically. Mademoiselle De Lafontaine--in right of her father
who was a German, assumed to be psychological, metaphysical, and
something of a mystic--now declared that when the moon shone with a
light so intense it was well known that it indicated a special spiritual
activity. The effect of the full moon in such a state of brilliancy was
manifold. It acted on dreams, it acted on lunacy, it acted on nervous
people, it had marvelous physical influences connected with life.
Mademoiselle related that her cousin, who was mate of a merchant ship,
having taken a nap on deck on such a night, lying on his back, with his
face full in the light on the moon, had wakened, after a dream of an old
woman clawing him by the cheek, with his features horribly drawn to one
side; and his countenance had never quite recovered its equilibrium.

"The moon, this night," she said, "is full of idyllic and magnetic
influence--and see, when you look behind you at the front of the schloss
how all its windows flash and twinkle with that silvery splendor, as if
unseen hands had lighted up the rooms to receive fairy guests."

There are indolent styles of the spirits in which, indisposed to talk
ourselves, the talk of others is pleasant to our listless ears; and I
gazed on, pleased with the tinkle of the ladies' conversation.

"I have got into one of my moping moods tonight," said my father, after
a silence, and quoting Shakespeare, whom, by way of keeping up our
English, he used to read aloud, he said:

 "'In truth I know not why I am so sad.
 It wearies me: you say it wearies you;
 But how I got it--came by it.'

"I forget the rest. But I feel as if some great mi
sfortune were hanging
over us. I suppose the poor General's afflicted letter has had something
to do with it."

At this moment the unwonted sound of carriage wheels and many hoofs upon
the road, arrested our attention.

They seemed to be approaching from the high ground overlooking the
bridge, and very soon the equipage emerged from that point. Two horsemen
first crossed the bridge, then came a carriage drawn by four horses, and
two men rode behind.

It seemed to be the traveling carriage of a person of rank; and we were
all immediately absorbed in watching that very unusual spectacle. It
became, in a few moments, greatly more interesting, for just as the
carriage had passed the summit of the steep bridge, one of the leaders,
taking fright, communicated his panic to the rest, and after a plunge or
two, the whole team broke into a wild gallop together, and dashing
between the horsemen who rode in front, came thundering along the road
towards us with the speed of a hurricane.

The excitement of the scene was made more painful by the clear,
long-drawn screams of a female voice from the carriage window.

We all advanced in curiosity and horror; me rather in silence, the rest
with various ejaculations of terror.

Our suspense did not last long. Just before you reach the castle
drawbridge, on the route they were coming, there stands by the roadside
a magnificent lime tree, on the other stands an ancient stone cross, at
sight of which the horses, now going at a pace that was perfectly
frightful, swerved so as to bring the wheel over the projecting roots
of the tree.

I knew what was coming. I covered my eyes, unable to see it out, and
turned my head away; at the same moment I heard a cry from my lady
friends, who had gone on a little.

Curiosity opened my eyes, and I saw a scene of utter confusion. Two of
the horses were on the ground, the carriage lay upon its side with two
wheels in the air; the men were busy removing the traces, and a lady
with a commanding air and figure had got out, and stood with clasped
hands, ra
ising the handkerchief that was in them every now and then
to her eyes.

Through the carriage door was now lifted a young lady, who appeared to
be lifeless. My dear old father was already beside the elder lady, with
his hat in his hand, evidently tendering his aid and the resources of
his schloss. The lady did not appear to hear him, or to have eyes for
anything but the slender girl who was being placed against the <DW72>
of the bank.

I approached; the young lady was apparently stunned, but she was
certainly not dead. My father, who piqued himself on being something of
a physician, had just had his fingers on her wrist and assured the lady,
who declared herself her mother, that her pulse, though faint and
irregular, was undoubtedly still distinguishable. The lady clasped her
hands and looked upward, as if in a momentary transport of gratitude;
but immediately she broke out again in that theatrical way which is, I
believe, natural to some people.

She was what is called a fine looking woman for her time of life, and
must have been handsome; she was tall, but not thin, and dressed in
black velvet, and looked rather pale, but with a proud and commanding
countenance, though now agitated strangely.

"Who was ever being so born to calamity?" I heard her say, with clasped
hands, as I came up. "Here am I, on a journey of life and death, in
prosecuting which to lose an hour is possibly to lose all. My child will
not have recovered sufficiently to resume her route for who can say how
long. I must leave her: I cannot, dare not, delay. How far on, sir, can
you tell, is the nearest village? I must leave her there; and shall not
see my darling, or even hear of her till my return, three months hence."

I plucked my father by the coat, and whispered earnestly in his ear:
"Oh! papa, pray ask her to let her stay with us--it would be so
delightful. Do, pray."

"If Madame will entrust her child to the care of my daughter, and of her
good gouvernante, Madame Perrodon, and permit her to remain as our
guest, under my charge, until her
 return, it will confer a distinction
and an obligation upon us, and we shall treat her with all the care and
devotion which so sacred a trust deserves."

"I cannot do that, sir, it would be to task your kindness and chivalry
too cruelly," said the lady, distractedly.

"It would, on the contrary, be to confer on us a very great kindness at
the moment when we most need it. My daughter has just been disappointed
by a cruel misfortune, in a visit from which she had long anticipated a
great deal of happiness. If you confide this young lady to our care it
will be her best consolation. The nearest village on your route is
distant, and affords no such inn as you could think of placing your
daughter at; you cannot allow her to continue her journey for any
considerable distance without danger. If, as you say, you cannot suspend
your journey, you must part with her tonight, and nowhere could you do
so with more honest assurances of care and tenderness than here."

There was something in this lady's air and appearance so distinguished
and even imposing, and in her manner so engaging, as to impress one,
quite apart from the dignity of her equipage, with a conviction that she
was a person of consequence.

By this time the carriage was replaced in its upright position, and the
horses, quite tractable, in the traces again.

The lady threw on her daughter a glance which I fancied was not quite so
affectionate as one might have anticipated from the beginning of the
scene; then she beckoned slightly to my father, and withdrew two or
three steps with him out of hearing; and talked to him with a fixed and
stern countenance, not at all like that with which she had
hitherto spoken.

I was filled with wonder that my father did not seem to perceive the
change, and also unspeakably curious to learn what it could be that she
was speaking, almost in his ear, with so much earnestness and rapidity.

Two or three minutes at most I think she remained thus employed, then
she turned, and a few steps brought her to where her daughter lay,
support
ed by Madame Perrodon. She kneeled beside her for a moment and
whispered, as Madame supposed, a little benediction in her ear; then
hastily kissing her she stepped into her carriage, the door was closed,
the footmen in stately liveries jumped up behind, the outriders spurred
on, the postilions cracked their whips, the horses plunged and broke
suddenly into a furious canter that threatened soon again to become a
gallop, and the carriage whirled away, followed at the same rapid pace
by the two horsemen in the rear.

III

_We Compare Notes_

We followed the _cortege_ with our eyes until it was swiftly lost to
sight in the misty wood; and the very sound of the hoofs and the wheels
died away in the silent night air.

Nothing remained to assure us that the adventure had not been an
illusion of a moment but the young lady, who just at that moment opened
her eyes. I could not see, for her face was turned from me, but she
raised her head, evidently looking about her, and I heard a very sweet
voice ask complainingly, "Where is mamma?"

Our good Madame Perrodon answered tenderly, and added some comfortable
assurances.

I then heard her ask:

"Where am I? What is this place?" and after that she said, "I don't see
the carriage; and Matska, where is she?"

Madame answered all her questions in so far as she understood them; and
gradually the young lady remembered how the misadventure came about, and
was glad to hear that no one in, or in attendance on, the carriage was
hurt; and on learning that her mamma had left her here, till her return
in about three months, she wept.

I was going to add my consolations to those of Madame Perrodon when
Mademoiselle De Lafontaine placed her hand upon my arm, saying:

"Don't approach, one at a time is as much as she can at present converse
with; a very little excitement would possibly overpower her now."

As soon as she is comfortably in bed, I thought, I will run up to her
room and see her.

My father in the meantime had sent a servant on horseback for the
physician, who lived about two leag
ues away; and a bedroom was being
prepared for the young lady's reception.

The stranger now rose, and leaning on Madame's arm, walked slowly over
the drawbridge and into the castle gate.

In the hall, servants waited to receive her, and she was conducted
forthwith to her room. The room we usually sat in as our drawing room is
long, having four windows, that looked over the moat and drawbridge,
upon the forest scene I have just described.

It is furnished in old carved oak, with large carved cabinets, and the
chairs are cushioned with crimson Utrecht velvet. The walls are covered
with tapestry, and surrounded with great gold frames, the figures being
as large as life, in ancient and very curious costume, and the subjects
represented are hunting, hawking, and generally festive. It is not too
stately to be extremely comfortable; and here we had our tea, for with
his usual patriotic leanings he insisted that the national beverage
should make its appearance regularly with our coffee and chocolate.

We sat here this night, and with candles lighted, were talking over the
adventure of the evening.

Madame Perrodon and Mademoiselle De Lafontaine were both of our party.
The young stranger had hardly lain down in her bed when she sank into a
deep sleep; and those ladies had left her in the care of a servant.

"How do you like our guest?" I asked, as soon as Madame entered. "Tell
me all about her?"

"I like her extremely," answered Madame, "she is, I almost think, the
prettiest creature I ever saw; about your age, and so gentle and nice."

"She is absolutely beautiful," threw in Mademoiselle, who had peeped for
a moment into the stranger's room.

"And such a sweet voice!" added Madame Perrodon.

"Did you remark a woman in the carriage, after it was set up again, who
did not get out," inquired Mademoiselle, "but only looked from
the window?"

"No, we had not seen her."

Then she described a hideous black woman, with a sort of turban
on her head, and who was gazing all the time from the carriage window,
nodding and grinning d
erisively towards the ladies, with gleaming eyes
and large white eyeballs, and her teeth set as if in fury.

"Did you remark what an ill-looking pack of men the servants were?"
asked Madame.

"Yes," said my father, who had just come in, "ugly, hang-dog looking
fellows as ever I beheld in my life. I hope they mayn't rob the poor
lady in the forest. They are clever rogues, however; they got everything
to rights in a minute."

"I dare say they are worn out with too long traveling," said Madame.

"Besides looking wicked, their faces were so strangely lean, and dark,
and sullen. I am very curious, I own; but I dare say the young lady will
tell you all about it tomorrow, if she is sufficiently recovered."

"I don't think she will," said my father, with a mysterious smile, and a
little nod of his head, as if he knew more about it than he cared
to tell us.

This made us all the more inquisitive as to what had passed between him
and the lady in the black velvet, in the brief but earnest interview
that had immediately preceded her departure.

We were scarcely alone, when I entreated him to tell me. He did not need
much pressing.

"There is no particular reason why I should not tell you. She expressed
a reluctance to trouble us with the care of her daughter, saying she was
in delicate health, and nervous, but not subject to any kind of
seizure--she volunteered that--nor to any illusion; being, in fact,
perfectly sane."

"How very odd to say all that!" I interpolated. "It was so unnecessary."

"At all events it _was_ said," he laughed, "and as you wish to know all
that passed, which was indeed very little, I tell you. She then said, 'I
am making a long journey of _vital_ importance--she emphasized the
word--rapid and secret; I shall return for my child in three months; in
the meantime, she will be silent as to who we are, whence we come, and
whither we are traveling.' That is all she said. She spoke very pure
French. When she said the word 'secret,' she paused for a few seconds,
looking sternly, her eyes fixed on mine. I fan
cy she makes a great point
of that. You saw how quickly she was gone. I hope I have not done a very
foolish thing, in taking charge of the young lady."

For my part, I was delighted. I was longing to see and talk to her; and
only waiting till the doctor should give me leave. You, who live in
towns, can have no idea how great an event the introduction of a new
friend is, in such a solitude as surrounded us.

The doctor did not arrive till nearly one o'clock; but I could no more
have gone to my bed and slept, than I could have overtaken, on foot, the
carriage in which the princess in black velvet had driven away.

When the physician came down to the drawing room, it was to report very
favorably upon his patient. She was now sitting up, her pulse quite
regular, apparently perfectly well. She had sustained no injury, and the
little shock to her nerves had passed away quite harmlessly. There could
be no harm certainly in my seeing her, if we both wished it; and, with
this permission I sent, forthwith, to know whether she would allow me to
visit her for a few minutes in her room.

The servant returned immediately to say that she desired nothing more.

You may be sure I was not long in availing myself of this permission.

Our visitor lay in one of the handsomest rooms in the schloss. It was,
perhaps, a little stately. There was a somber piece of tapestry opposite
the foot of the bed, representing Cleopatra with the asps to her bosom;
and other solemn classic scenes were displayed, a little faded, upon the
other walls. But there was gold carving, and rich and varied color
enough in the other decorations of the room, to more than redeem the
gloom of the old tapestry.

There were candles at the bedside. She was sitting up; her slender
pretty figure enveloped in the soft silk dressing gown, embroidered with
flowers, and lined with thick quilted silk, which her mother had thrown
over her feet as she lay upon the ground.

What was it that, as I reached the bedside and had just begun my little
greeting, struck me dumb in a mom
ent, and made me recoil a step or two
from before her? I will tell you.

I saw the very face which had visited me in my childhood at night, which
remained so fixed in my memory, and on which I had for so many years so
often ruminated with horror, when no one suspected of what I
was thinking.

It was pretty, even beautiful; and when I first beheld it, wore the
same melancholy expression.

But this almost instantly lighted into a strange fixed smile of
recognition.

There was a silence of fully a minute, and then at length she spoke; I
could not.

"How wonderful!" she exclaimed. "Twelve years ago, I saw your face in a
dream, and it has haunted me ever since."

"Wonderful indeed!" I repeated, overcoming with an effort the horror
that had for a time suspended my utterances. "Twelve years ago, in
vision or reality, I certainly saw you. I could not forget your face. It
has remained before my eyes ever since."

Her smile had softened. Whatever I had fancied strange in it, was gone,
and it and her dimpling cheeks were now delightfully pretty and
intelligent.

I felt reassured, and continued more in the vein which hospitality
indicated, to bid her welcome, and to tell her how much pleasure her
accidental arrival had given us all, and especially what a happiness it
was to me.

I took her hand as I spoke. I was a little shy, as lonely people are,
but the situation made me eloquent, and even bold. She pressed my hand,
she laid hers upon it, and her eyes glowed, as, looking hastily into
mine, she smiled again, and blushed.

She answered my welcome very prettily. I sat down beside her, still
wondering; and she said:

"I must tell you my vision about you; it is so very strange that you and
I should have had, each of the other so vivid a dream, that each should
have seen, I you and you me, looking as we do now, when of course we
both were mere children. I was a child, about six years old, and I awoke
from a confused and troubled dream, and found myself in a room, unlike
my nursery, wainscoted clumsily in some dark wood, and with
 cupboards
and bedsteads, and chairs, and benches placed about it. The beds were,
I thought, all empty, and the room itself without anyone but myself in
it; and I, after looking about me for some time, and admiring especially
an iron candlestick with two branches, which I should certainly know
again, crept under one of the beds to reach the window; but as I got
from under the bed, I heard someone crying; and looking up, while I was
still upon my knees, I saw you--most assuredly you--as I see you now; a
beautiful young lady, with golden hair and large blue eyes, and
lips--your lips--you as you are here.

"Your looks won me; I climbed on the bed and put my arms about you, and
I think we both fell asleep. I was aroused by a scream; you were sitting
up screaming. I was frightened, and slipped down upon the ground, and,
it seemed to me, lost consciousness for a moment; and when I came to
myself, I was again in my nursery at home. Your face I have never
forgotten since. I could not be misled by mere resemblance. _You are_
the lady whom I saw then."

It was now my turn to relate my corresponding vision, which I did, to
the undisguised wonder of my new acquaintance.

"I don't know which should be most afraid of the other," she said, again
smiling--"If you were less pretty I think I should be very much afraid
of you, but being as you are, and you and I both so young, I feel only
that I have made your acquaintance twelve years ago, and have already a
right to your intimacy; at all events it does seem as if we were
destined, from our earliest childhood, to be friends. I wonder whether
you feel as strangely drawn towards me as I do to you; I have never had
a friend--shall I find one now?" She sighed, and her fine dark eyes
gazed passionately on me.

Now the truth is, I felt rather unaccountably towards the beautiful
stranger. I did feel, as she said, "drawn towards her," but there was
also something of repulsion. In this ambiguous feeling, however, the
sense of attraction immensely prevailed. She interested and won me; she
w
as so beautiful and so indescribably engaging.

I perceived now something of languor and exhaustion stealing over her,
and hastened to bid her good night.

"The doctor thinks," I added, "that you ought to have a maid to sit up
with you tonight; one of ours is waiting, and you will find her a very
useful and quiet creature."

"How kind of you, but I could not sleep, I never could with an attendant
in the room. I shan't require any assistance--and, shall I confess my
weakness, I am haunted with a terror of robbers. Our house was robbed
once, and two servants murdered, so I always lock my door. It has become
a habit--and you look so kind I know you will forgive me. I see there is
a key in the lock."

She held me close in her pretty arms for a moment and whispered in my
ear, "Good night, darling, it is very hard to part with you, but good
night; tomorrow, but not early, I shall see you again."

She sank back on the pillow with a sigh, and her fine eyes followed me
with a fond and melancholy gaze, and she murmured again "Good night,
dear friend."

Young people like, and even love, on impulse. I was flattered by the
evident, though as yet undeserved, fondness she showed me. I liked the
confidence with which she at once received me. She was determined that
we should be very near friends.

Next day came and we met again. I was delighted with my companion; that
is to say, in many respects.

Her looks lost nothing in daylight--she was certainly the most beautiful
creature I had ever seen, and the unpleasant remembrance of the face
presented in my early dream, had lost the effect of the first unexpected
recognition.

She confessed that she had experienced a similar shock on seeing me, and
precisely the same faint antipathy that had mingled with my admiration
of her. We now laughed together over our momentary horrors.

IV

_Her Habits--A Saunter_

I told you that I was charmed with her in most particulars.

There were some that did not please me so well.

She was above the middle height of women. I shall begin by describing

her.

She was slender, and wonderfully graceful. Except that her movements
were languid--very languid--indeed, there was nothing in her appearance
to indicate an invalid. Her complexion was rich and brilliant; her
features were small and beautifully formed; her eyes large, dark, and
lustrous; her hair was quite wonderful, I never saw hair so
magnificently thick and long when it was down about her shoulders; I
have often placed my hands under it, and laughed with wonder at its
weight. It was exquisitely fine and soft, and in color a rich very dark
brown, with something of gold. I loved to let it down, tumbling with its
own weight, as, in her room, she lay back in her chair talking in her
sweet low voice, I used to fold and braid it, and spread it out and
play with it. Heavens! If I had but known all!

I said there were particulars which did not please me. I have told you
that her confidence won me the first night I saw her; but I found that
she exercised with respect to herself, her mother, her history,
everything in fact connected with her life, plans, and people, an ever
wakeful reserve. I dare say I was unreasonable, perhaps I was wrong; I
dare say I ought to have respected the solemn injunction laid upon my
father by the stately lady in black velvet. But curiosity is a restless
and unscrupulous passion, and no one girl can endure, with patience,
that hers should be baffled by another. What harm could it do anyone to
tell me what I so ardently desired to know? Had she no trust in my good
sense or honor? Why would she not believe me when I assured her, so
solemnly, that I would not divulge one syllable of what she told me to
any mortal breathing.

There was a coldness, it seemed to me, beyond her years, in her smiling
melancholy persistent refusal to afford me the least ray of light.

I cannot say we quarreled upon this point, for she would not quarrel
upon any. It was, of course, very unfair of me to press her, very
ill-bred, but I really could not help it; and I might just as well have
let it alone.

What she 
did tell me amounted, in my unconscionable estimation--to
nothing.

It was all summed up in three very vague disclosures:

First--Her name was Carmilla.

Second--Her family was very ancient and noble.

Third--Her home lay in the direction of the west.

She would not tell me the name of her family, nor their armorial
bearings, nor the name of their estate, nor even that of the country
they lived in.

You are not to suppose that I worried her incessantly on these subjects.
I watched opportunity, and rather insinuated than urged my inquiries.
Once or twice, indeed, I did attack her more directly. But no matter
what my tactics, utter failure was invariably the result. Reproaches and
caresses were all lost upon her. But I must add this, that her evasion
was conducted with so pretty a melancholy and deprecation, with so many,
and even passionate declarations of her liking for me, and trust in my
honor, and with so many promises that I should at last know all, that I
could not find it in my heart long to be offended with her.

She used to place her pretty arms about my neck, draw me to her, and
laying her cheek to mine, murmur with her lips near my ear, "Dearest,
your little heart is wounded; think me not cruel because I obey the
irresistible law of my strength and weakness; if your dear heart is
wounded, my wild heart bleeds with yours. In the rapture of my enormous
humiliation I live in your warm life, and you shall die--die, sweetly
die--into mine. I cannot help it; as I draw near to you, you, in your
turn, will draw near to others, and learn the rapture of that cruelty,
which yet is love; so, for a while, seek to know no more of me and mine,
but trust me with all your loving spirit."

And when she had spoken such a rhapsody, she would press me more closely
in her trembling embrace, and her lips in soft kisses gently glow
upon my cheek.

Her agitations and her language were unintelligible to me.

From these foolish embraces, which were not of very frequent occurrence,
I must allow, I used to wish to extricate myself;
 but my energies seemed
to fail me. Her murmured words sounded like a lullaby in my ear, and
soothed my resistance into a trance, from which I only seemed to recover
myself when she withdrew her arms.

In these mysterious moods I did not like her. I experienced a strange
tumultuous excitement that was pleasurable, ever and anon, mingled with
a vague sense of fear and disgust. I had no distinct thoughts about her
while such scenes lasted, but I was conscious of a love growing into
adoration, and also of abhorrence. This I know is paradox, but I can
make no other attempt to explain the feeling.

I now write, after an interval of more than ten years, with a trembling
hand, with a confused and horrible recollection of certain occurrences
and situations, in the ordeal through which I was unconsciously passing;
though with a vivid and very sharp remembrance of the main current of
my story.

But, I suspect, in all lives there are certain emotional scenes, those
in which our passions have been most wildly and terribly roused, that
are of all others the most vaguely and dimly remembered.

Sometimes after an hour of apathy, my strange and beautiful companion
would take my hand and hold it with a fond pressure, renewed again and
again; blushing softly, gazing in my face with languid and burning eyes,
and breathing so fast that her dress rose and fell with the tumultuous
respiration. It was like the ardor of a lover; it embarrassed me; it was
hateful and yet over-powering; and with gloating eyes she drew me to
her, and her hot lips traveled along my cheek in kisses; and she would
whisper, almost in sobs, "You are mine, you _shall_ be mine, you and I
are one for ever." Then she had thrown herself back in her chair, with
her small hands over her eyes, leaving me trembling.

"Are we related," I used to ask; "what can you mean by all this? I
remind you perhaps of someone whom you love; but you must not, I hate
it; I don't know you--I don't know myself when you look so and talk so."

She used to sigh at my vehemence, then turn aw
ay and drop my hand.

Respecting these very extraordinary manifestations I strove in vain to
form any satisfactory theory--I could not refer them to affectation or
trick. It was unmistakably the momentary breaking out of suppressed
instinct and emotion. Was she, notwithstanding her mother's volunteered
denial, subject to brief visitations of insanity; or was there here a
disguise and a romance? I had read in old storybooks of such things.
What if a boyish lover had found his way into the house, and sought to
prosecute his suit in masquerade, with the assistance of a clever old
adventuress. But there were many things against this hypothesis, highly
interesting as it was to my vanity.

I could boast of no little attentions such as masculine gallantry
delights to offer. Between these passionate moments there were long
intervals of commonplace, of gaiety, of brooding melancholy, during
which, except that I detected her eyes so full of melancholy fire,
following me, at times I might have been as nothing to her. Except in
these brief periods of mysterious excitement her ways were girlish; and
there was always a languor about her, quite incompatible with a
masculine system in a state of health.

In some respects her habits were odd. Perhaps not so singular in the
opinion of a town lady like you, as they appeared to us rustic people.
She used to come down very late, generally not till one o'clock, she
would then take a cup of chocolate, but eat nothing; we then went out
for a walk, which was a mere saunter, and she seemed, almost
immediately, exhausted, and either returned to the schloss or sat on one
of the benches that were placed, here and there, among the trees. This
was a bodily languor in which her mind did not sympathize. She was
always an animated talker, and very intelligent.

She sometimes alluded for a moment to her own home, or mentioned an
adventure or situation, or an early recollection, which indicated a
people of strange manners, and described customs of which we knew
nothing. I gathered from these chance
 hints that her native country was
much more remote than I had at first fancied.

As we sat thus one afternoon under the trees a funeral passed us by. It
was that of a pretty young girl, whom I had often seen, the daughter of
one of the rangers of the forest. The poor man was walking behind the
coffin of his darling; she was his only child, and he looked quite
heartbroken.

Peasants walking two-and-two came behind, they were singing a funeral
hymn.

I rose to mark my respect as they passed, and joined in the hymn they
were very sweetly singing.

My companion shook me a little roughly, and I turned surprised.

She said brusquely, "Don't you perceive how discordant that is?"

"I think it very sweet, on the contrary," I answered, vexed at the
interruption, and very uncomfortable, lest the people who composed the
little procession should observe and resent what was passing.

I resumed, therefore, instantly, and was again interrupted. "You pierce
my ears," said Carmilla, almost angrily, and stopping her ears with her
tiny fingers. "Besides, how can you tell that your religion and mine are
the same; your forms wound me, and I hate funerals. What a fuss! Why you
must die--_everyone_ must die; and all are happier when they do.
Come home."

"My father has gone on with the clergyman to the churchyard. I thought
you knew she was to be buried today."

"She? I don't trouble my head about peasants. I don't know who she is,"
answered Carmilla, with a flash from her fine eyes.

"She is the poor girl who fancied she saw a ghost a fortnight ago, and
has been dying ever since, till yesterday, when she expired."

"Tell me nothing about ghosts. I shan't sleep tonight if you do."

"I hope there is no plague or fever coming; all this looks very like
it," I continued. "The swineherd's young wife died only a week ago, and
she thought something seized her by the throat as she lay in her bed,
and nearly strangled her. Papa says such horrible fancies do accompany
some forms of fever. She was quite well the day before. She sank
afterwards, a
nd died before a week."

"Well, _her_ funeral is over, I hope, and _her_ hymn sung; and our ears
shan't be tortured with that discord and jargon. It has made me nervous.
Sit down here, beside me; sit close; hold my hand; press it
hard-hard-harder."

We had moved a little back, and had come to another seat.

She sat down. Her face underwent a change that alarmed and even
terrified me for a moment. It darkened, and became horribly livid; her
teeth and hands were clenched, and she frowned and compressed her lips,
while she stared down upon the ground at her feet, and trembled all over
with a continued shudder as irrepressible as ague. All her energies
seemed strained to suppress a fit, with which she was then breathlessly
tugging; and at length a low convulsive cry of suffering broke from her,
and gradually the hysteria subsided. "There! That comes of strangling
people with hymns!" she said at last. "Hold me, hold me still. It is
passing away."

And so gradually it did; and perhaps to dissipate the somber impression
which the spectacle had left upon me, she became unusually animated and
chatty; and so we got home.

This was the first time I had seen her exhibit any definable symptoms of
that delicacy of health which her mother had spoken of. It was the first
time, also, I had seen her exhibit anything like temper.

Both passed away like a summer cloud; and never but once afterwards did
I witness on her part a momentary sign of anger. I will tell you how
it happened.

She and I were looking out of one of the long drawing room windows, when
there entered the courtyard, over the drawbridge, a figure of a wanderer
whom I knew very well. He used to visit the schloss generally twice
a year.

It was the figure of a hunchback, with the sharp lean features that
generally accompany deformity. He wore a pointed black beard, and he was
smiling from ear to ear, showing his white fangs. He was dressed in
buff, black, and scarlet, and crossed with more straps and belts than I
could count, from which hung all manner of things. Behi
nd, he carried a
magic lantern, and two boxes, which I well knew, in one of which was a
salamander, and in the other a mandrake. These monsters used to make my
father laugh. They were compounded of parts of monkeys, parrots,
squirrels, fish, and hedgehogs, dried and stitched together with great
neatness and startling effect. He had a fiddle, a box of conjuring
apparatus, a pair of foils and masks attached to his belt, several other
mysterious cases dangling about him, and a black staff with copper
ferrules in his hand. His companion was a rough spare dog, that followed
at his heels, but stopped short, suspiciously at the drawbridge, and in
a little while began to howl dismally.

In the meantime, the mountebank, standing in the midst of the courtyard,
raised his grotesque hat, and made us a very ceremonious bow, paying his
compliments very volubly in execrable French, and German not
much better.

Then, disengaging his fiddle, he began to scrape a lively air to which
he sang with a merry discord, dancing with ludicrous airs and activity,
that made me laugh, in spite of the dog's howling.

Then he advanced to the window with many smiles and salutations, and
his hat in his left hand, his fiddle under his arm, and with a fluency
that never took breath, he gabbled a long advertisement of all his
accomplishments, and the resources of the various arts which he placed
at our service, and the curiosities and entertainments which it was in
his power, at our bidding, to display.

"Will your ladyships be pleased to buy an amulet against the oupire,
which is going like the wolf, I hear, through these woods," he said
dropping his hat on the pavement. "They are dying of it right and left
and here is a charm that never fails; only pinned to the pillow, and you
may laugh in his face."

These charms consisted of oblong slips of vellum, with cabalistic
ciphers and diagrams upon them.

Carmilla instantly purchased one, and so did I.

He was looking up, and we were smiling down upon him, amused; at least,
I can answer for myself. His 
piercing black eye, as he looked up in our
faces, seemed to detect something that fixed for a moment his curiosity.
In an instant he unrolled a leather case, full of all manner of odd
little steel instruments.

"See here, my lady," he said, displaying it, and addressing me, "I
profess, among other things less useful, the art of dentistry. Plague
take the dog!" he interpolated. "Silence, beast! He howls so that your
ladyships can scarcely hear a word. Your noble friend, the young lady at
your right, has the sharpest tooth,--long, thin, pointed, like an awl,
like a needle; ha, ha! With my sharp and long sight, as I look up, I
have seen it distinctly; now if it happens to hurt the young lady, and I
think it must, here am I, here are my file, my punch, my nippers; I will
make it round and blunt, if her ladyship pleases; no longer the tooth of
a fish, but of a beautiful young lady as she is. Hey? Is the young lady
displeased? Have I been too bold? Have I offended her?"

The young lady, indeed, looked very angry as she drew back from the
window.

"How dares that mountebank insult us so? Where is your father? I shall
demand redress from him. My father would have had the wretch tied up to
the pump, and flogged with a cart whip, and burnt to the bones with the
cattle brand!"

She retired from the window a step or two, and sat down, and had hardly
lost sight of the offender, when her wrath subsided as suddenly as it
had risen, and she gradually recovered her usual tone, and seemed to
forget the little hunchback and his follies.

My father was out of spirits that evening. On coming in he told us that
there had been another case very similar to the two fatal ones which had
lately occurred. The sister of a young peasant on his estate, only a
mile away, was very ill, had been, as she described it, attacked very
nearly in the same way, and was now slowly but steadily sinking.

"All this," said my father, "is strictly referable to natural causes.
These poor people infect one another with their superstitions, and so
repeat in ima
gination the images of terror that have infested their
neighbors."

"But that very circumstance frightens one horribly," said Carmilla.

"How so?" inquired my father.

"I am so afraid of fancying I see such things; I think it would be as
bad as reality."

"We are in God's hands: nothing can happen without his permission, and
all will end well for those who love him. He is our faithful creator; He
has made us all, and will take care of us."

"Creator! _Nature!_" said the young lady in answer to my gentle father.
"And this disease that invades the country is natural. Nature. All
things proceed from Nature--don't they? All things in the heaven, in the
earth, and under the earth, act and live as Nature ordains? I
think so."

"The doctor said he would come here today," said my father, after a
silence. "I want to know what he thinks about it, and what he thinks we
had better do."

"Doctors never did me any good," said Carmilla.

"Then you have been ill?" I asked.

"More ill than ever you were," she answered.

"Long ago?"

"Yes, a long time. I suffered from this very illness; but I forget all
but my pain and weakness, and they were not so bad as are suffered in
other diseases."

"You were very young then?"

"I dare say, let us talk no more of it. You would not wound a friend?"

She looked languidly in my eyes, and passed her arm round my waist
lovingly, and led me out of the room. My father was busy over some
papers near the window.

"Why does your papa like to frighten us?" said the pretty girl with a
sigh and a little shudder.

"He doesn't, dear Carmilla, it is the very furthest thing from his
mind."

"Are you afraid, dearest?"

"I should be very much if I fancied there was any real danger of my
being attacked as those poor people were."

"You are afraid to die?"

"Yes, every one is."

"But to die as lovers may--to die together, so that they may live
together.

"Girls are caterpillars while they live in the world, to be finally
butterflies when the summer comes; but in the meantime there are grubs
and larvae, don't yo
u see--each with their peculiar propensities,
necessities and structure. So says Monsieur Buffon, in his big book, in
the next room."

Later in the day the doctor came, and was closeted with papa for some
time.

He was a skilful man, of sixty and upwards, he wore powder, and shaved
his pale face as smooth as a pumpkin. He and papa emerged from the room
together, and I heard papa laugh, and say as they came out:

"Well, I do wonder at a wise man like you. What do you say to
hippogriffs and dragons?"

The doctor was smiling, and made answer, shaking his head--

"Nevertheless life and death are mysterious states, and we know little
of the resources of either."

And so they walked on, and I heard no more. I did not then know what the
doctor had been broaching, but I think I guess it now.

V

_A Wonderful Likeness_

This evening there arrived from Gratz the grave, dark-faced son of the
picture cleaner, with a horse and cart laden with two large packing
cases, having many pictures in each. It was a journey of ten leagues,
and whenever a messenger arrived at the schloss from our little capital
of Gratz, we used to crowd about him in the hall, to hear the news.

This arrival created in our secluded quarters quite a sensation. The
cases remained in the hall, and the messenger was taken charge of by the
servants till he had eaten his supper. Then with assistants, and armed
with hammer, ripping chisel, and turnscrew, he met us in the hall, where
we had assembled to witness the unpacking of the cases.

Carmilla sat looking listlessly on, while one after the other the old
pictures, nearly all portraits, which had undergone the process of
renovation, were brought to light. My mother was of an old Hungarian
family, and most of these pictures, which were about to be restored to
their places, had come to us through her.

My father had a list in his hand, from which he read, as the artist
rummaged out the corresponding numbers. I don't know that the pictures
were very good, but they were, undoubtedly, very old, and some of them
ve
ry curious also. They had, for the most part, the merit of being now
seen by me, I may say, for the first time; for the smoke and dust of
time had all but obliterated them.

"There is a picture that I have not seen yet," said my father. "In one
corner, at the top of it, is the name, as well as I could read, 'Marcia
Karnstein,' and the date '1698'; and I am curious to see how it has
turned out."

I remembered it; it was a small picture, about a foot and a half high,
and nearly square, without a frame; but it was so blackened by age that
I could not make it out.

The artist now produced it, with evident pride. It was quite beautiful;
it was startling; it seemed to live. It was the effigy of Carmilla!

"Carmilla, dear, here is an absolute miracle. Here you are, living,
smiling, ready to speak, in this picture. Isn't it beautiful, Papa? And
see, even the little mole on her throat."

My father laughed, and said "Certainly it is a wonderful likeness," but
he looked away, and to my surprise seemed but little struck by it, and
went on talking to the picture cleaner, who was also something of an
artist, and discoursed with intelligence about the portraits or other
works, which his art had just brought into light and color, while I was
more and more lost in wonder the more I looked at the picture.

"Will you let me hang this picture in my room, papa?" I asked.

"Certainly, dear," said he, smiling, "I'm very glad you think it so
like. It must be prettier even than I thought it, if it is."

The young lady did not acknowledge this pretty speech, did not seem to
hear it. She was leaning back in her seat, her fine eyes under their
long lashes gazing on me in contemplation, and she smiled in a kind
of rapture.

"And now you can read quite plainly the name that is written in the
corner. It is not Marcia; it looks as if it was done in gold. The name
is Mircalla, Countess Karnstein, and this is a little coronet over and
underneath A.D. 1698. I am descended from the Karnsteins; that is,
mamma was."

"Ah!" said the lady, languidly, "
so am I, I think, a very long descent,
very ancient. Are there any Karnsteins living now?"

"None who bear the name, I believe. The family were ruined, I believe,
in some civil wars, long ago, but the ruins of the castle are only about
three miles away."

"How interesting!" she said, languidly. "But see what beautiful
moonlight!" She glanced through the hall door, which stood a little
open. "Suppose you take a little ramble round the court, and look down
at the road and river."

"It is so like the night you came to us," I said.

She sighed; smiling.

She rose, and each with her arm about the other's waist, we walked out
upon the pavement.

In silence, slowly we walked down to the drawbridge, where the beautiful
landscape opened before us.

"And so you were thinking of the night I came here?" she almost
whispered.

"Are you glad I came?"

"Delighted, dear Carmilla," I answered.

"And you asked for the picture you think like me, to hang in your room,"
she murmured with a sigh, as she drew her arm closer about my waist, and
let her pretty head sink upon my shoulder. "How romantic you are,
Carmilla," I said. "Whenever you tell me your story, it will be made up
chiefly of some one great romance."

She kissed me silently.

"I am sure, Carmilla, you have been in love; that there is, at this
moment, an affair of the heart going on."

"I have been in love with no one, and never shall," she whispered,
"unless it should be with you."

How beautiful she looked in the moonlight!

Shy and strange was the look with which she quickly hid her face in my
neck and hair, with tumultuous sighs, that seemed almost to sob, and
pressed in mine a hand that trembled.

Her soft cheek was glowing against mine. "Darling, darling," she
murmured, "I live in you; and you would die for me, I love you so."

I started from her.

She was gazing on me with eyes from which all fire, all meaning had
flown, and a face colorless and apathetic.

"Is there a chill in the air, dear?" she said drowsily. "I almost
shiver; have I been dreaming? Let us come in
. Come; come; come in."

"You look ill, Carmilla; a little faint. You certainly must take some
wine," I said.

"Yes. I will. I'm better now. I shall be quite well in a few minutes.
Yes, do give me a little wine," answered Carmilla, as we approached
the door.

"Let us look again for a moment; it is the last time, perhaps, I shall
see the moonlight with you."

"How do you feel now, dear Carmilla? Are you really better?" I asked.

I was beginning to take alarm, lest she should have been stricken with
the strange epidemic that they said had invaded the country about us.

"Papa would be grieved beyond measure," I added, "if he thought you were
ever so little ill, without immediately letting us know. We have a very
skilful doctor near us, the physician who was with papa today."

"I'm sure he is. I know how kind you all are; but, dear child, I am
quite well again. There is nothing ever wrong with me, but a
little weakness.

"People say I am languid; I am incapable of exertion; I can scarcely walk
as far as a child of three years old: and every now and then the little
strength I have falters, and I become as you have just seen me. But
after all I am very easily set up again; in a moment I am perfectly
myself. See how I have recovered."

So, indeed, she had; and she and I talked a great deal, and very
animated she was; and the remainder of that evening passed without any
recurrence of what I called her infatuations. I mean her crazy talk and
looks, which embarrassed, and even frightened me.

But there occurred that night an event which gave my thoughts quite a
new turn, and seemed to startle even Carmilla's languid nature into
momentary energy.

VI

_A Very Strange Agony_

When we got into the drawing room, and had sat down to our coffee and
chocolate, although Carmilla did not take any, she seemed quite herself
again, and Madame, and Mademoiselle De Lafontaine, joined us, and made a
little card party, in the course of which papa came in for what he
called his "dish of tea."

When the game was over he sat down beside Carm
illa on the sofa, and
asked her, a little anxiously, whether she had heard from her mother
since her arrival.

She answered "No."

He then asked whether she knew where a letter would reach her at
present.

"I cannot tell," she answered ambiguously, "but I have been thinking of
leaving you; you have been already too hospitable and too kind to me. I
have given you an infinity of trouble, and I should wish to take a
carriage tomorrow, and post in pursuit of her; I know where I shall
ultimately find her, although I dare not yet tell you."

"But you must not dream of any such thing," exclaimed my father, to my
great relief. "We can't afford to lose you so, and I won't consent to
your leaving us, except under the care of your mother, who was so good
as to consent to your remaining with us till she should herself return.
I should be quite happy if I knew that you heard from her: but this
evening the accounts of the progress of the mysterious disease that has
invaded our neighborhood, grow even more alarming; and my beautiful
guest, I do feel the responsibility, unaided by advice from your mother,
very much. But I shall do my best; and one thing is certain, that you
must not think of leaving us without her distinct direction to that
effect. We should suffer too much in parting from you to consent to
it easily."

"Thank you, sir, a thousand times for your hospitality," she answered,
smiling bashfully. "You have all been too kind to me; I have seldom been
so happy in all my life before, as in your beautiful chateau, under your
care, and in the society of your dear daughter."

So he gallantly, in his old-fashioned way, kissed her hand, smiling and
pleased at her little speech.

I accompanied Carmilla as usual to her room, and sat and chatted with
her while she was preparing for bed.

"Do you think," I said at length, "that you will ever confide fully in
me?"

She turned round smiling, but made no answer, only continued to smile on
me.

"You won't answer that?" I said. "You can't answer pleasantly; I ought
not to have asked 
you."

"You were quite right to ask me that, or anything. You do not know how
dear you are to me, or you could not think any confidence too great to
look for. But I am under vows, no nun half so awfully, and I dare not
tell my story yet, even to you. The time is very near when you shall
know everything. You will think me cruel, very selfish, but love is
always selfish; the more ardent the more selfish. How jealous I am you
cannot know. You must come with me, loving me, to death; or else hate me
and still come with me, and _hating_ me through death and after. There
is no such word as indifference in my apathetic nature."

"Now, Carmilla, you are going to talk your wild nonsense again," I said
hastily.

"Not I, silly little fool as I am, and full of whims and fancies; for
your sake I'll talk like a sage. Were you ever at a ball?"

"No; how you do run on. What is it like? How charming it must be."

"I almost forget, it is years ago."

I laughed.

"You are not so old. Your first ball can hardly be forgotten yet."

"I remember everything about it--with an effort. I see it all, as divers
see what is going on above them, through a medium, dense, rippling, but
transparent. There occurred that night what has confused the picture,
and made its colours faint. I was all but assassinated in my bed,
wounded here," she touched her breast, "and never was the same since."

"Were you near dying?"

"Yes, very--a cruel love--strange love, that would have taken my life.
Love will have its sacrifices. No sacrifice without blood. Let us go to
sleep now; I feel so lazy. How can I get up just now and lock my door?"

She was lying with her tiny hands buried in her rich wavy hair, under
her cheek, her little head upon the pillow, and her glittering eyes
followed me wherever I moved, with a kind of shy smile that I could
not decipher.

I bid her good night, and crept from the room with an uncomfortable
sensation.

I often wondered whether our pretty guest ever said her prayers. I
certainly had never seen her upon her knees. In the morning s
he never
came down until long after our family prayers were over, and at night
she never left the drawing room to attend our brief evening prayers
in the hall.

If it had not been that it had casually come out in one of our careless
talks that she had been baptised, I should have doubted her being a
Christian. Religion was a subject on which I had never heard her speak a
word. If I had known the world better, this particular neglect or
antipathy would not have so much surprised me.

The precautions of nervous people are infectious, and persons of a like
temperament are pretty sure, after a time, to imitate them. I had
adopted Carmilla's habit of locking her bedroom door, having taken into
my head all her whimsical alarms about midnight invaders and prowling
assassins. I had also adopted her precaution of making a brief search
through her room, to satisfy herself that no lurking assassin or robber
was "ensconced."

These wise measures taken, I got into my bed and fell asleep. A light
was burning in my room. This was an old habit, of very early date, and
which nothing could have tempted me to dispense with.

Thus fortified I might take my rest in peace. But dreams come through
stone walls, light up dark rooms, or darken light ones, and their
persons make their exits and their entrances as they please, and laugh
at locksmiths.

I had a dream that night that was the beginning of a very strange agony.

I cannot call it a nightmare, for I was quite conscious of being asleep.

But I was equally conscious of being in my room, and lying in bed,
precisely as I actually was. I saw, or fancied I saw, the room and its
furniture just as I had seen it last, except that it was very dark, and
I saw something moving round the foot of the bed, which at first I
could not accurately distinguish. But I soon saw that it was a
sooty-black animal that resembled a monstrous cat. It appeared to me
about four or five feet long for it measured fully the length of the
hearthrug as it passed over it; and it continued to-ing and fro-ing with
th
e lithe, sinister restlessness of a beast in a cage. I could not cry
out, although as you may suppose, I was terrified. Its pace was growing
faster, and the room rapidly darker and darker, and at length so dark
that I could no longer see anything of it but its eyes. I felt it spring
lightly on the bed. The two broad eyes approached my face, and suddenly
I felt a stinging pain as if two large needles darted, an inch or two
apart, deep into my breast. I waked with a scream. The room was lighted
by the candle that burnt there all through the night, and I saw a female
figure standing at the foot of the bed, a little at the right side. It
was in a dark loose dress, and its hair was down and covered its
shoulders. A block of stone could not have been more still. There was
not the slightest stir of respiration. As I stared at it, the figure
appeared to have changed its place, and was now nearer the door; then,
close to it, the door opened, and it passed out.

I was now relieved, and able to breathe and move. My first thought was
that Carmilla had been playing me a trick, and that I had forgotten to
secure my door. I hastened to it, and found it locked as usual on the
inside. I was afraid to open it--I was horrified. I sprang into my bed
and covered my head up in the bedclothes, and lay there more dead than
alive till morning.

VII

_Descending_

It would be vain my attempting to tell you the horror with which, even
now, I recall the occurrence of that night. It was no such transitory
terror as a dream leaves behind it. It seemed to deepen by time, and
communicated itself to the room and the very furniture that had
encompassed the apparition.

I could not bear next day to be alone for a moment. I should have told
papa, but for two opposite reasons. At one time I thought he would laugh
at my story, and I could not bear its being treated as a jest; and at
another I thought he might fancy that I had been attacked by the
mysterious complaint which had invaded our neighborhood. I had myself no
misgiving of the kind, and as he
 had been rather an invalid for some
time, I was afraid of alarming him.

I was comfortable enough with my good-natured companions, Madame
Perrodon, and the vivacious Mademoiselle Lafontaine. They both perceived
that I was out of spirits and nervous, and at length I told them what
lay so heavy at my heart.

Mademoiselle laughed, but I fancied that Madame Perrodon looked anxious.

"By-the-by," said Mademoiselle, laughing, "the long lime tree walk,
behind Carmilla's bedroom window, is haunted!"

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Madame, who probably thought the theme rather
inopportune, "and who tells that story, my dear?"

"Martin says that he came up twice, when the old yard gate was being
repaired, before sunrise, and twice saw the same female figure walking
down the lime tree avenue."

"So he well might, as long as there are cows to milk in the river
fields," said Madame.

"I daresay; but Martin chooses to be frightened, and never did I see
fool more frightened."

"You must not say a word about it to Carmilla, because she can see down
that walk from her room window," I interposed, "and she is, if possible,
a greater coward than I."

Carmilla came down rather later than usual that day.

"I was so frightened last night," she said, so soon as were together,
"and I am sure I should have seen something dreadful if it had not been
for that charm I bought from the poor little hunchback whom I called
such hard names. I had a dream of something black coming round my bed,
and I awoke in a perfect horror, and I really thought, for some seconds,
I saw a dark figure near the chimney-piece, but I felt under my pillow
for my charm, and the moment my fingers touched it, the figure
disappeared, and I felt quite certain, only that I had it by me, that
something frightful would have made its appearance, and, perhaps,
throttled me, as it did those poor people we heard of.

"Well, listen to me," I began, and recounted my adventure, at the
recital of which she appeared horrified.

"And had you the charm near you?" she asked, earnestly.

"No, I 
had dropped it into a china vase in the drawing room, but I shall
certainly take it with me tonight, as you have so much faith in it."

At this distance of time I cannot tell you, or even understand, how I
overcame my horror so effectually as to lie alone in my room that night.
I remember distinctly that I pinned the charm to my pillow. I fell
asleep almost immediately, and slept even more soundly than usual
all night.

Next night I passed as well. My sleep was delightfully deep and
dreamless.

But I wakened with a sense of lassitude and melancholy, which, however,
did not exceed a degree that was almost luxurious.

"Well, I told you so," said Carmilla, when I described my quiet sleep,
"I had such delightful sleep myself last night; I pinned the charm to
the breast of my nightdress. It was too far away the night before. I am
quite sure it was all fancy, except the dreams. I used to think that
evil spirits made dreams, but our doctor told me it is no such thing.
Only a fever passing by, or some other malady, as they often do, he
said, knocks at the door, and not being able to get in, passes on, with
that alarm."

"And what do you think the charm is?" said I.

"It has been fumigated or immersed in some drug, and is an antidote
against the malaria," she answered.

"Then it acts only on the body?"

"Certainly; you don't suppose that evil spirits are frightened by bits
of ribbon, or the perfumes of a druggist's shop? No, these complaints,
wandering in the air, begin by trying the nerves, and so infect the
brain, but before they can seize upon you, the antidote repels them.
That I am sure is what the charm has done for us. It is nothing magical,
it is simply natural."

I should have been happier if I could have quite agreed with Carmilla,
but I did my best, and the impression was a little losing its force.

For some nights I slept profoundly; but still every morning I felt the
same lassitude, and a languor weighed upon me all day. I felt myself a
changed girl. A strange melancholy was stealing over me, a melancholy
tha
t I would not have interrupted. Dim thoughts of death began to open,
and an idea that I was slowly sinking took gentle, and, somehow, not
unwelcome, possession of me. If it was sad, the tone of mind which this
induced was also sweet.

Whatever it might be, my soul acquiesced in it.

I would not admit that I was ill, I would not consent to tell my papa,
or to have the doctor sent for.

Carmilla became more devoted to me than ever, and her strange paroxysms
of languid adoration more frequent. She used to gloat on me with
increasing ardor the more my strength and spirits waned. This always
shocked me like a momentary glare of insanity.

Without knowing it, I was now in a pretty advanced stage of the
strangest illness under which mortal ever suffered. There was an
unaccountable fascination in its earlier symptoms that more than
reconciled me to the incapacitating effect of that stage of the malady.
This fascination increased for a time, until it reached a certain point,
when gradually a sense of the horrible mingled itself with it,
deepening, as you shall hear, until it discolored and perverted the
whole state of my life.

The first change I experienced was rather agreeable. It was very near
the turning point from which began the descent of Avernus.

Certain vague and strange sensations visited me in my sleep. The
prevailing one was of that pleasant, peculiar cold thrill which we feel
in bathing, when we move against the current of a river. This was soon
accompanied by dreams that seemed interminable, and were so vague that
I could never recollect their scenery and persons, or any one connected
portion of their action. But they left an awful impression, and a sense
of exhaustion, as if I had passed through a long period of great mental
exertion and danger.

After all these dreams there remained on waking a remembrance of having
been in a place very nearly dark, and of having spoken to people whom I
could not see; and especially of one clear voice, of a female's, very
deep, that spoke as if at a distance, slowly, and 
producing always the
same sensation of indescribable solemnity and fear. Sometimes there came
a sensation as if a hand was drawn softly along my cheek and neck.
Sometimes it was as if warm lips kissed me, and longer and longer and
more lovingly as they reached my throat, but there the caress fixed
itself. My heart beat faster, my breathing rose and fell rapidly and
full drawn; a sobbing, that rose into a sense of strangulation,
supervened, and turned into a dreadful convulsion, in which my senses
left me and I became unconscious.

It was now three weeks since the commencement of this unaccountable
state.

My sufferings had, during the last week, told upon my appearance. I had
grown pale, my eyes were dilated and darkened underneath, and the
languor which I had long felt began to display itself in my countenance.

My father asked me often whether I was ill; but, with an obstinacy which
now seems to me unaccountable, I persisted in assuring him that I was
quite well.

In a sense this was true. I had no pain, I could complain of no bodily
derangement. My complaint seemed to be one of the imagination, or the
nerves, and, horrible as my sufferings were, I kept them, with a morbid
reserve, very nearly to myself.

It could not be that terrible complaint which the peasants called the
oupire, for I had now been suffering for three weeks, and they were
seldom ill for much more than three days, when death put an end to
their miseries.

Carmilla complained of dreams and feverish sensations, but by no means
of so alarming a kind as mine. I say that mine were extremely alarming.
Had I been capable of comprehending my condition, I would have invoked
aid and advice on my knees. The narcotic of an unsuspected influence was
acting upon me, and my perceptions were benumbed.

I am going to tell you now of a dream that led immediately to an odd
discovery.

One night, instead of the voice I was accustomed to hear in the dark, I
heard one, sweet and tender, and at the same time terrible, which said,
"Your mother warns you to beware of
<|endoftext|>
Produced by Suzanne Shell, Anita Paque, Shawn Wheeler,
David Schaal, Anuradha Valsa Raj and PG Distributed Proofreaders

THE MAGNETIC NORTH

By ELIZABETH ROBINS

(C. E. Raimond) Author of "The Open Question," "Below the Salt," etc.
_With a Map_

1904

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I. WINTER CAMP IN THE YUKON

II. HOUSE-WARMING

III. TWO NEW SPISSIMENS

IV. THE BLOW-OUT

V. THE SHAMAN

VI. A PENITENTIAL JOURNEY

VII. KAVIAK'S CRIME

VIII. CHRISTMAS

IX. A CHRISTIAN AGNOSTIC

X. PRINCESS MUCKLUCK

XI. HOLY CROSS

XII. THE GREAT WHITE SILENCE

XIII. THE PIT

XIV. KURILLA

XV. THE ESQUIMAUX HORSE

XVI. MINOOK

XVII. THE GREAT STAMPEDE

XVIII. A MINERS' MEETING

XIX. THE ICE GOES OUT

XX. THE KLONDYKE

XXI. PARDNERS

XXII. THE GOING HOME

THE MAGNETIC NORTH

CHAPTER I

WINTER CAMP ON THE YUKON

"To labour and to be content with that a man hath is a sweet life; but
he that findeth a treasure is above them both."--_Ecclesiasticus_.

Of course they were bound for the Klondyke. Every creature in the
North-west was bound for the Klondyke. Men from the South too, and men
from the East, had left their ploughs and their pens, their factories,
pulpits, and easy-chairs, each man like a magnetic needle suddenly set
free and turning sharply to the North; all set pointing the self-same
way since that July day in '97, when the _Excelsior_ sailed into San
Francisco harbour, bringing from the uttermost regions at the top of
the map close upon a million dollars in nuggets and in gold-dust.

Some distance this side of the Arctic Circle, on the right bank of the
Yukon, a little detachment of that great army pressing northward, had
been wrecked early in the month of September.

They had realised, on leaving the ocean-going ship that landed them at
St. Michael's Island (near the mouth of the great river), that they
could not hope to reach Dawson that year. But instead of "getting cold
feet," as the phrase for discouragement ran, and turning back as
thousands did, or putting in the winter on the coast, they determined,
with an eye to the spring rush,
 to cover as many as possible of the
seventeen hundred miles of waterway before navigation closed.

They knew, in a vague way, that winter would come early, but they had
not counted on the big September storm that dashed their heavy-laden
boats against the floe-ice, ultimately drove them ashore, and nearly
cost the little party their lives. On that last day of the long
struggle up the stream, a stiff north-easter was cutting the middle
reach of the mighty river, two miles wide here, into a choppy and
dangerous sea.

Day by day, five men in the two little boats, had kept serious eyes on
the shore. Then came the morning when, out of the monotonous cold and
snow-flurries, something new appeared, a narrow white rim forming on
the river margin--the first ice!

"Winter beginning to show his teeth," said one man, with an effort at
jocosity.

Day by day, nearer came the menace; narrower and swifter still ran the
deep black water strip between the encroaching ice-lines. But the
thought that each day's sailing or rowing meant many days nearer the
Klondyke, seemed to inspire a superhuman energy. Day by day each man
had felt, and no man yet had said, "We must camp to-night for eight
months." They had looked landward, shivered, and held on their way.

But on this particular morning, when they took in sail, they realised
it was to be that abomination of desolation on the shore or death. And
one or other speedily.

Nearer the white teeth gleamed, fiercer the gale, swifter the current,
sweeping back the boats. The _Mary C._ was left behind, fighting for
life, while it seemed as if no human power could keep the _Tulare_ from
being hurled against the western shore. Twice, in spite of all they
could do, she was driven within a few feet of what looked like certain
death. With a huge effort, that last time, her little crew had just got
her well in mid-stream, when a heavy roller breaking on the starboard
side drenched the men and half filled the cockpit. Each rower, still
pulling for dear life with one hand, bailed the boat with the 
other;
but for all their promptness a certain amount of the water froze solid
before they could get it out.

"Great luck, if we're going to take in water like this," said the
cheerful Kentuckian, shipping his oar and knocking off the ice--"great
luck that all the stores are so well protected."

"Protected!" snapped out an anxious, cast-iron-looking man at the
rudder.

"Yes, protected. How's water to get through the ice-coat that's over
everything?"

The cast-iron steersman set his jaw grimly. They seemed to be
comparatively safe now, with half a mile of open water between them and
the western shore.

But they sat as before, stiff, alert, each man in his ice jacket that
cracked and crunched as he bent to his oar. Now right, now left, again
they eyed the shore.

Would it be--could it be there they would have to land? And if they
did...?

Lord, how it blew!

"Hard a-port!" called out the steersman. There, just ahead, was a great
white-capped "roller" coming--coming, the biggest wave they had
encountered since leaving open sea.

But MacCann, the steersman, swung the boat straight into the crested
roller, and the _Tulare_ took it gamely, "bow on." All was going well
when, just in the boiling middle of what they had thought was foaming
"white-cap," the boat struck something solid, shivered, and went
shooting down, half under water; recovered, up again, and seemed to
pause in a second's doubt on the very top of the great wave. In that
second that seemed an eternity one man's courage snapped.

Potts threw down his oar and swore by----and by----he wouldn't pull
another----stroke on the----Yukon.

While he was pouring out the words, the steersman sprang from the
tiller, and seized Potts' oar just in time to save the boat from
capsizing. Then he and the big Kentuckian both turned on the distracted
Potts.

"You infernal quitter!" shouted the steersman, and choked with fury.
But even under the insult of that "meanest word in the language," Potts
sat glaring defiantly, with his half-frozen hands in his pockets.

"It ain't a ri
ver, anyhow, this ain't," he said. "It's plain, simple
Hell and water."

The others had no time to realise that Potts was clean out of his
senses for the moment, and the Kentuckian, still pulling like mad,
faced the "quitter" with a determination born of terror.

"If you can't row, take the rudder! Damnation! Take that rudder! Quick,
_or we'll kill you_!" And he half rose up, never dropping his oar.

Blindly, Potts obeyed.

The _Tulare_ was free now from the clinging mass at the bow, but they
knew they had struck their first floe.

Farther on they could see other white-caps bringing other ice masses
down. But there was no time for terrors ahead. The gale was steadily
driving them in shore again. Boat and oars alike were growing unwieldy
with their coating of ever-increasing ice, and human strength was no
match for the storm that was sweeping down from the Pole.

Lord, how it blew!

"There's a cove!" called out the Kentuckian. "Throw her in!" he shouted
to Potts. Sullenly the new steersman obeyed.

Rolling in on a great surge, the boat suddenly turned in a boiling
eddy, and the first thing anybody knew was that the _Tulare_ was on her
side and her crew in the water. Potts was hanging on to the gunwale and
damning the others for not helping him to save the boat.

She wasn't much of a boat when finally they got her into quiet water;
but the main thing was they had escaped with their lives and rescued a
good proportion of their winter provisions. All the while they were
doing this last, the Kentuckian kept turning to look anxiously for any
sign of the others, in his heart bitterly blaming himself for having
agreed to Potts' coming into the _Tulare_ that day in place of the
Kentuckian's own "pardner." When they had piled the rescued provisions
up on the bank, and just as they were covering the heap of bacon,
flour, and bean-bags, boxes, tools, and utensils with a tarpaulin, up
went a shout, and the two missing men appeared tramping along the
ice-encrusted shore.

Where was the _Mary C._? Well, she was at the bottom of
 the Yukon, and
her crew would like some supper.

They set up a tent, and went to bed that first night extremely well
pleased at being alive on any terms.

But people get over being glad about almost anything, unless misfortune
again puts an edge on the circumstance. The next day, not being in any
immediate danger, the boon of mere life seemed less satisfying.

In detachments they went up the river several miles, and down about as
far. They looked in vain for any sign of the _Mary C._. They prospected
the hills. From the heights behind the camp they got a pretty fair idea
of the surrounding country. It was not reassuring.

"As to products, there seems to be plenty of undersized timber, plenty
of snow and plenty of river, and, as far as I can see, just nothing
else."

"Well, there's oodles o' blueberries," said the Boy, his inky-looking
mouth bearing witness to veracity; "and there are black and red
currants in the snow, and rose-apples--"

"Oh, yes," returned the other, "it's a sort of garden of Eden!"

A little below here it was four miles from bank to bank of the main
channel, but at this point the river was only about two miles wide, and
white already with floating masses of floe-ice going on a swift current
down towards the sea, four hundred miles away.

The right bank presented to the mighty river a low chain of hills,
fringed at the base with a scattered growth of scrubby spruce, birch,
willow, and cotton-wood. Timber line was only two hundred feet above
the river brink; beyond that height, rocks and moss covered with
new-fallen snow.

But if their side seemed cheerless, what of the land on the left bank?
A swamp stretching endlessly on either hand, and back from the icy
flood as far as eye could see, broken only by sloughs and an occasional
ice-rimmed tarn.

"We've been travelling just eight weeks to arrive at this," said the
Kentuckian, looking at the desolate scene with a homesick eye.

"We're not only pretty far from home," grumbled another, "we're still
thirteen hundred miles away from the Klondyke."


These unenlivening calculations were catching.

"We're just about twenty-five hundred miles from the nearest railroad
or telegraph, and, now that winter's down on us, exactly eight months
from anywhere in the civilised world."

They had seen no sign of even savage life, no white trader, nothing to
show that any human foot had ever passed that way before.

In that stillness that was like the stillness of death, they went up
the hillside, with footsteps muffled in the clinging snow; and sixty
feet above the great river, in a part of the wood where the timber was
least unpromising, they marked out a site for their winter quarters.

Then this queer little company--a Denver bank-clerk, an ex-schoolmaster
from Nova Scotia, an Irish-American lawyer from San Francisco, a
Kentucky "Colonel" who had never smelt powder, and "the Boy" (who was
no boy at all, but a man of twenty-two)--these five set to work felling
trees, clearing away the snow, and digging foundations for a couple of
log-cabins--one for the Trio, as they called themselves, the other for
the Colonel and the Boy.

These two had chummed from the hour they met on the steamer that
carried them through the Golden Gate of the Pacific till--well, till
the end of my story.

The Colonel was a big tanned fellow, nearly forty--eldest of the
party--whom the others used to guy discreetly, because you couldn't
mention a place anywhere on the known globe, except the far north,
which he had not personally inspected. But for this foible, as the
untravelled considered it, he was well liked and a little
feared--except by the Boy, who liked him "first-rate," and feared him
not at all. They had promptly adopted each other before they discovered
that it was necessary to have one or more "pardners." It seemed, from
all accounts, to be true, that up there at the top of the world a man
alone is a man lost, and ultimately the party was added to as
aforesaid.

Only two of them knew anything about roughing it. Jimmie O'Flynn of
'Frisco, the Irish-American lawyer, had seen something of f
rontier
life, and fled it, and MacCann, the Nova Scotian schoolmaster, had
spent a month in one of the Caribou camps, and on the strength of that,
proudly accepted the nickname of "the Miner."

Colonel George Warren and Morris Burnet, the Boy, had the best outfits;
but this fact was held to be more than counter-balanced by the value of
the schoolmaster's experience at Caribou, and by the extraordinary
handiness of Potts, the Denver clerk, who had helped to build the
shelter on deck for the disabled sick on the voyage up. This young man
with the big mouth and lazy air had been in the office of a bank ever
since he left school, and yet, under pressure, he discovered a natural
neat-handedness and a manual dexterity justly envied by some of his
fellow-pioneers. His outfit was not more conspicuously meagre than
O'Flynn's, yet the Irishman was held to be the moneyed man of his
party. Just why was never fully developed, but it was always said,
"O'Flynn represents capital"; and O'Flynn, whether on that account, or
for a subtler and more efficient reason, always got the best of
everything that was going without money and without price.

On board ship O'Flynn, with his ready tongue and his golden
background--"representing capital"--was a leading spirit. Potts the
handy-man was a talker, too, and a good second. But, once in camp, Mac
the Miner was cock of the walk, in those first days, quoted "Caribou,"
and ordered everybody about to everybody's satisfaction.

In a situation like this, the strongest lean on the man who has ever
seen "anything like it" before. It was a comfort that anybody even
_thought_ he knew what to do under such new conditions. So the others
looked on with admiration and a pleasant confidence, while Mac boldly
cut a hole in the brand-new tent, and instructed Potts how to make a
flange out of a tin plate, with which to protect the canvas from the
heat of the stove-pipe. No more cooking now in the bitter open.
Everyone admired Mac's foresight when he said:

"We must build rock fireplaces in our cabins, or
 we'll find our one
little Yukon stove burnt out before the winter is over--before we have
a chance to use it out prospecting." And when Mac said they must pool
their stores, the Colonel and the Boy agreed as readily as O'Flynn,
whose stores consisted of a little bacon, some navy beans, and a
demijohn of whisky. O'Flynn, however, urged that probably every man had
a little "mite o' somethin'" that he had brought specially for
himself--somethin' his friends had given him, for instance. There was
Potts, now. They all knew how the future Mrs. Potts had brought a
plum-cake down to the steamer, when she came to say good-bye, and made
Potts promise he wouldn't unseal the packet till Christmas. It wouldn't
do to pool Potts' cake--never! There was the Colonel, the only man that
had a sack of coffee. He wouldn't listen when they had told him tea was
the stuff up here, and--well, perhaps other fellows didn't miss coffee
as much as a Kentuckian, though he _had_ heard--Never mind; they
wouldn't pool the coffee. The Boy had some preserved fruit that he
seemed inclined to be a hog about--

"Oh, look here. I haven't touched it!" "Just what I'm sayin'. You're
hoardin' that fruit."

It was known that Mac had a very dacint little medicine-chest. Of
course, if any fellow was ill, Mac wasn't the man to refuse him a
little cold pizen; but he must be allowed to keep his own medicine
chest--and that little pot o' Dundee marmalade. As for O'Flynn, he
would look after the "dimmi-john."

But Mac was dead against the whisky clause. Alcohol had been the curse
of Caribou, and in _this_ camp spirits were to be for medicinal
purposes only. Whereon a cloud descended on Mr. O'Flynn, and his health
began to suffer; but the precious demi-john was put away "in stock"
along with the single bottles belonging to the others. Mac had taken an
inventory, and no one in those early days dared touch anything without
his permission.

They had cut into the mountain-side for a level foundation, and were
hard at it now hauling logs.

"I wonder," said the Boy, st
opping a moment in his work, and looking at
the bleak prospect round him--"I wonder if we're going to see anybody
all winter."

"Oh, sure to," Mac thought; "Indians, anyhow."

"Well, I begin to wish they'd mosy along," said Potts; and the sociable
O'Flynn backed him up.

It was towards noon on the sixth day after landing (they had come to
speak of this now as a voluntary affair), when they were electrified by
hearing strange voices; looked up from their work, and saw two white
men seated on a big cake of ice going down the river with the current.
When they recovered sufficiently from their astonishment at the
spectacle, they ran down the hillside, and proposed to help the
"castaways" to land. Not a bit of it.

"_Land_ in that place! What you take us for? Not much! We're going to
St. Michael's."

They had a small boat drawn up by them on the ice, and one man was
dressed in magnificent furs, a long sable overcoat and cap, and wearing
quite the air of a North Pole Nabob.

"Got any grub?" Mac called out.

"Yes; want some?"

"Oh no; I thought you--"

"You're not going to try to live through the winter _there?_"

"Yes."

"Lord! you _are_ in a fix!"

"That's we thought about you."

But the travellers on the ice-raft went by laughing and joking at the
men safe on shore with their tents and provisions. It made some of them
visibly uneasy. _Would_ they win through? Were they crazy to try it?
They had looked forward eagerly to the first encounter with their kind,
but this vision floating by on the treacherous ice, of men who rather
dared the current and the crash of contending floes than land where
_they_ were, seemed of evil augury. The little incident left a
curiously sinister impression on the camp.

Even Mac was found agreeing with the others of his Trio that, since
they had a grand, tough time in front of them, it was advisable to get
through the black months ahead with as little wear and tear as
possible. In spite of the Trio's superior talents, they built a small
ramshackle cabin with a tumble-down fireplace, which s
erved them so ill
that they ultimately spent all their waking hours in the more
comfortable quarters of the Colonel and the Boy. It had been agreed
that these two, with the help, or, at all events, the advice, of the
others, should build the bigger, better cabin, where the stores should
be kept and the whole party should mess--a cabin with a solid outside
chimney of stone and an open fireplace, generous of proportion and
ancient of design, "just like down South."

The weather was growing steadily colder; the ice was solid now many
feet out from each bank of the river. In the middle of the flood the
clotted current still ran with floe-ice, but it was plain the river was
settling down for its long sleep.

Not silently, not without stress and thunder. The handful of dwellers
on the shore would be waked in the night by the shock and crash of
colliding floes, the sound of the great winds rushing by, and--"Hush!
What's that?" Tired men would start up out of sleep and sit straight to
listen. Down below, among the ice-packs, the noise as of an old-time
battle going on--tumult and crashing and a boom! boom! like
cannonading.

Then one morning they woke to find all still, the conflict over, the
Yukon frozen from bank to bank. No sound from that day on; no more
running water for a good seven months.

Winter had come.

While the work went forward they often spoke of the only two people
they had thus far seen. Both Potts and O'Flynn had been heard to envy
them.

Mac had happened to say that he believed the fellow in furs was an
Englishman--a Canadian, at the very least. The Americans chaffed him,
and said, "That accounts for it," in a tone not intended to flatter.
Mac hadn't thought of it before, but he was prepared to swear now that
if an Englishman--they were the hardiest pioneers on earth--or a
Canadian was in favour of lighting out, "it must be for some good
reason."

"Oh yes; we all know that reason."

The Americans laughed, and Mac, growing hot, was goaded into vaunting
the Britisher and running down the Yankee.

"Yanke
e!" echoed the Kentuckian. "And up in Nova Scotia they let this
man teach school! Doesn't know the difference yet between the little
corner they call New England and all the rest of America."

"All the rest of America!" shouted Mac. "The cheeky way you people of
the States have of gobbling the Continent (in _talk_), just as though
the British part of it wasn't the bigger half!"

"Yes; but when you think _which_ half, you ought to be obliged to any
fellow for forgetting it." And then they referred to effete monarchical
institutions, and by the time they reached the question of the kind of
king the Prince of Wales would make, Mac was hardly a safe man to argue
with.

There was one bond between him and the Kentucky Colonel: they were both
religious men; and although Mac was blue Presbyterian and an inveterate
theologian, somehow, out here in the wilderness, it was more possible
to forgive a man for illusions about the Apostolic Succession and
mistaken views upon Church government. The Colonel, at all events, was
not so lax but what he was ready to back up the Calvinist in an
endeavour to keep the Sabbath (with a careful compromise between church
and chapel) and help him to conduct a Saturday-night Bible-class.

But if the Boy attended the Bible-class with fervour and aired his
heresies with uncommon gusto, if he took with equal geniality Colonel
Warren's staid remonstrance and Mac's fiery objurgation, Sunday morning
invariably found him more "agnostic" than ever, stoutly declining to
recognise the necessity for "service." For this was an occasion when
you couldn't argue or floor anybody, or hope to make Mac "hoppin' mad,"
or have the smallest kind of a shindy. The Colonel read the lessons,
Mac prayed, and they all sang, particularly O'Flynn. Now, the Boy
couldn't sing a note, so there was no fair division of entertainment,
wherefore he would go off into the woods with his gun for company, and
the Catholic O'Flynn, and even Potts, were in better odour than he
"down in camp" on Sundays. So far you may travel, and yet 
not escape
the tyranny of the "outworn creeds."

The Boy came back a full hour before service on the second Sunday with
a couple of grouse and a beaming countenance. Mac, who was cook that
week, was the only man left in the tent. He looked agreeably surprised
at the apparition.

"Hello!" says he more pleasantly than his Sunday gloom usually
permitted. "Back in time for service?"

"I've found a native," says the Boy, speaking as proudly as any
Columbus. "He's hurt his foot, and he's only got one eye, but he's
splendid. Told me no end of things. He's coming here as fast as his
foot will let him--he and three other Indians--Esquimaux, I mean. They
haven't had anything to eat but berries and roots for seven days."

The Boy was feverishly overhauling the provisions behind the stove.

"Look here," says Mac, "hold on there. I don't know that we've come all
this way to feed a lot o' dirty savages."

"But they're starving." Then, seeing that that fact did not produce the
desired impression: "My savage is an awfully good fellow. He--he's a
converted savage, seems to be quite a Christian." Then, hastily
following up his advantage: "He's been taught English by the Jesuits at
the mission forty miles above us, on the river. He can give us a whole
heap o' tips."

Mac was slowly bringing out a small panful of cold boiled beans.

"There are four of them," said the Boy--"big fellows, almost as big as
our Colonel, and _awful_ hungry."

Mac looked at the handful of beans and then at the small sheet-iron
stove.

"There are more cooking," says he not over-cordially.

"The one that talks good English is the son of the chief. You can see
he's different from the others. Knows a frightful lot. He's taught me
some of his language already. The men with him said 'Kaiomi' to
everything I asked, and that means 'No savvy.' Says he'll teach
me--he'll teach all of us--how to snow-shoe."

"We know how to snow-shoe."

"Oh, I mean on those long narrow snow-shoes that make you go so fast
you always trip up! He'll show us how to steer with a pole, and
 how to
make fish-traps and--and everything."

Mac began measuring out some tea.

"He's got a team of Esquimaux dogs--calls 'em Mahlemeuts, and he's got
a birch-bark canoe, and a skin kyak from the coast." Then with an
inspiration: "His people are the sort of Royal Family down there,"
added the Boy, thinking to appeal to the Britisher's monarchical
instincts.

Mac had meditatively laid his hand on a side of bacon, the Boy's eyes
following.

"He's asked us--_all_ of us, and we're five--up to visit him at Pymeut,
the first village above us here." Mac took up a knife to cut the bacon.
"And--good gracious! why, I forgot the grouse; they can have the
grouse!"

"No, they can't," said Mac firmly; "they're lucky to get bacon."

The Boy's face darkened ominously. When he looked like that the elder
men found it was "healthiest to give him his head." But the young face
cleared as quickly as it had clouded. After all, the point wasn't worth
fighting for, since grouse would take time to cook, and--here were the
natives coming painfully along the shore.

The Boy ran out and shouted and waved his cap. The other men of the
camp, who had gone in the opposite direction, across the river ice to
look at an air-hole, came hurrying back and reached camp about the same
time as the visitors.

"Thought you said they were big fellows!" commented Mac, who had come
to the door for a glimpse of the Indians as they toiled up the <DW72>.

"Well, so they are!"

"Why, the Colonel would make two of any one of them."

"The Colonel! Oh well, you can't expect anybody else to be quite as big
as that. I was in a hurry, but I suppose what I meant was, they could
eat as much as the Colonel."

"How do you know?"

"Well, just look how broad they are. It doesn't matter to your stomach
whether you're big up and down, or big to and fro."

"It's their furs make 'em look like that. They're the most awful little
runts I ever saw!"

"Well, I reckon _you'd_ think they were big, too--big as Nova
Scotia--if _you'd_ found 'em--come on 'em suddenly like that in the
w
oods--"

"Which is the...?"

"Oh, the son of the chief is in the middle, the one who is taking off
his civilised fur-coat. He says his father's got a heap of pelts (you
could get things for your collection, Mac), and he's got two
reindeer-skin shirts with hoods--'parkis,' you know, like the others
are wearing--"

They were quite near now.

"How do," said the foremost native affably.

"How do." The Boy came forward and shook hands as though he hadn't seen
him for a month. "This," says he, turning first to Mac and then to the
other white men, "this is Prince Nicholas of Pymeut. Walk right in, all
of you, and have something to eat."

The visitors sat on the ground round the stove, as close as they could
get without scorching, and the atmosphere was quickly heavy with their
presence. When they slipped back their hoods it was seen that two of
the men wore the "tartar tonsure," after the fashion of the coast.

"Where do you come from?" inquired the Colonel of the man nearest him,
who simply blinked and was dumb.

"This is the one that talks English," said the Boy, indicating Nicholas,
"and he lives at Pymeut, and he's been converted."

"How far is Pymeut?"

"We sleep Pymeut to-night," says Nicholas.

"Which way?"

The native jerked his head up the river.

"Many people there?"

He nodded.

"White men, too?"

He shook his head.

"How far to the nearest white men?"

Nicholas's mind wandered from the white man's catechism and fixed
itself on his race's immemorial problem: how far it was to the nearest
thing to eat.

"I thought you said he could speak English."

"So he can, first rate. He and I had a great pow-wow, didn't we,
Nicholas?"

Nicholas smiled absently, and fixed his one eye on the bacon that Mac
was cutting on the deal box into such delicate slices.

"He'll talk all right," said the Boy, "when he's had some breakfast."

Mac had finished the cutting, and now put the frying-pan on an open
hole in the little stove.

"Cook him?" inquired Nicholas.

"Yes. Don't you cook him?"

"Take heap time, cook him."

"You couldn'
t eat it raw!"

Nicholas nodded emphatically.

Mac said "No," but the Boy was curious to see if they would really eat
it uncooked.

"Let them have _some_ of it raw while the rest is frying"; and he
beckoned the visitors to the deal box. They made a dart forward,
gathered up the fat bacon several slices at a time, and pushed it into
their mouths.

"Ugh!" said the Colonel under his breath.

Mac quickly swept what was left into the frying-pan, and began to cut a
fresh lot.

The Boy divided the cold beans, got out biscuits, and poured the tea,
while silence and a strong smell of ancient fish and rancid seal
pervaded the little tent.

O'Flynn put a question or two, but Nicholas had gone stone-deaf. There
was no doubt about it, they had been starving.

After a good feed they sat stolidly by the fire, with no sign of
consciousness, save the blinking of beady eyes, till the Colonel
suggested a smoke. Then they all grinned broadly, and nodded with great
vigour. Even those who had no other English understood "tobacco."

When he had puffed awhile, Nicholas took his pipe out of his mouth,
and, looking at the Boy, said:

"You no savvy catch fish in winter?"

"Through the ice? No. How you do it?"

"Make hole--put down trap--heap fish all winter."

"You get enough to live on?" asked the Colonel.

"They must have dried fish, too, left over from the summer," said Mac.

Nicholas agreed. "And berries and flour. When snow begin get soft,
Pymeuts all go off--" He motioned with his big head towards the hills.

"What do you get there?" Mac was becoming interested.

"Caribou, moose--"

"Any furs?"

"Yes; trap ermun, marten--"

"Lynx, too, I suppose, and fox?"

Nicholas nodded. "All kinds. Wolf--muskrat, otter--wolverine--all
kinds."

"You got some skins now?" asked the Nova Scotian.

"Y--yes. More when snow get soft. You come Pymeut--me show."

"Where have ye been just now?" asked O'Flynn.

"St. Michael."

"How long since ye left there?"

"Twelve sleeps."

"He means thirteen days."

Nicholas nodded.

"They couldn't possibly walk that fa
r in--"

"Oh yes," says the Boy; "they don't follow the windings of the river,
they cut across the portage, you know."

"Snow come--no trail--big mountains--all get lost."

"What did you go to St. Michael's for?"

"Oh, me pilot. Me go all over. Me leave N. A. T. and T. boat St.
Michael's last trip."

"Then you're in the employ of the great North American Trading and
Transportation Company?"

Nicholas gave that funny little duck of the head that meant yes.

"That's how you learnt English," says the Colonel.

"No; me learn English at Holy Cross. Me been baptize."

"At that Jesuit mission up yonder?"

"Forty mile."

"Well," says Potts, "I guess you've had enough walking for one winter."

Nicholas seemed not to follow this observation. The Boy interpreted:

"You heap tired, eh? You no go any more long walk till ice go out, eh?"

Nicholas grinned.

"Me go Ikogimeut--all Pymeut go."

"What for?"

"Big feast."

"Oh, the Russian mission there gives a feast?"

"No. Big Innuit feast."

"When?"

"Pretty quick. Every year big feast down to Ikogimeut when Yukon ice
get hard, so man go safe with dog-team."

"Do many people go?"

"All Innuit go, plenty Ingalik go."

"How far do they come?"

"All over; come from Koserefsky, come from Anvik--sometime Nulato."

"Why, Nulato's an awful distance from Ikogimeut."

"Three hundred and twenty miles," said the pilot, proud of his general
information, and quite ready, since he had got a pipe between his
teeth, to be friendly and communicative.

"What do you do at Ikogimeut when you have these--" "Big fire--big
feed--tell heap stories--big dance. Oh, heap big time!"

"Once every year, eh, down at Ikogimeut?"

"Three times ev' year. Ev' village, and"--he lowered his voice, not
with any hit of reverence or awe, but with an air of making a sly and
cheerful confidence--"and when man die."

"You make a feast and have a dance when a friend dies?"

"If no priests. Priests no like. Priests say, 'Man no dead; man gone
up.'" Nicholas pondered the strange saying, and slowly shook his head.

"In that 
the priests are right," said Mac grudgingly.

It was anything but politic, but for the life of him the Boy couldn't
help chipping in:

"You think when man dead he stay dead, eh, and you might as well make a
feast?"

Nicholas gave his quick nod. "We got heap muskeetah, we cold, we
hungry. We here heap long time. Dead man, he done. Why no big feast? Oh
yes, heap big feast."

The Boy was enraptured. He would gladly have encouraged these pagan
deliverances on the part of the converted Prince, but the Colonel was
scandalised, and Mac, although in his heart of hearts not ill-satisfied
at the evidence of the skin-deep Christianity of a man delivered over
to the corrupt teaching of the Jesuits, found in this last fact all the
stronger reason for the instant organisation of a good Protestant
prayer-meeting. Nicholas of Pymeut must not be allowed to think it was
only Jesuits who remembered the Sabbath day to keep it holy.

And the three "pore benighted heathen" along with him, if they didn't
understand English words, they should have an object-lesson, and Mac
would himself pray the prayers they couldn't utter for themselves. He
jumped up, motioned the Boy to put on more wood, cleared away the
granite-ware dishes, filled the bean-pot and set it back to simmer,
while the Colonel got out Mac's Bible and his own Prayer-Book.

The Boy did his stoking gloomily, reading aright these portents. Almost
eclipsed was joy in this "find" of his (for he regarded the precious
Nicholas as his own special property). It was all going to end in
his--the Boy's--being hooked in for service. As long as the Esquimaux
were there _he_ couldn't, of course, tear himself away. And here was
the chance they'd all been waiting for. Here was a native chock-full of
knowledge of the natural law and the immemorial gospel of the North,
who would be gone soon--oh, very soon, if Mac and the Colonel went on
like this--and they were going to choke off Nicholas's communicativeness
with--a service!

"It's Sunday, you know," says the Colonel to the Prince, laying op
en
his book, "and we were just going to have church. You are accustomed to
going to church at Holy Cross, aren't you?"

"When me kid me go church."

"You haven't gone since you grew up? They still have church there,
don't they?"

"Oh, Father Brachet, him have church."

"Why don't you go?"

Nicholas was vaguely conscious of threatened disapproval.

"Me ... me must take up fish-traps."

"Can't you do that another day?"

It seemed not to have occurred to Nicholas before. He sat and
considered the matter.

"Isn't Father Brachet," began the Colonel gravely--"he doesn't like it,
does he, when you don't come to church?"

"He take care him church; him know me take care me fish-trap."

But Nicholas saw plainly out of his one eye that he was not growing in
popularity. Suddenly that solitary organ gleamed with self-justification.

"Me bring fish to Father Brachet and to Mother Aloysius and the
Sisters."

Mac and the Colonel exchanged dark glances.

"Do Mother Aloysius and the Sisters live where Father Brachet does?"

"Father Brachet, and Father Wills, and Brother Paul, and Brother
Etienne, all here." The native put two fingers on the floor. "Big white
cross in middle"--he laid down his pipe to personate the
cross--"here"--indicating the other side--"here Mother Aloysius and the
Sisters."

"I thought," says Mac, "we'd be hearing of a convent convenient."

"Me help Father Brachet," observed Nicholas proudly. "Me show him boys
how make traps, show him girls how make mucklucks." "_What_!" gasps the
horrified Mac, "Father Brachet has got a family?"

"Famly?" inquired Nicholas. "Kaiomi"; and he shook his head
uncertainly.

"You say Father Brachet has got boys, and"--as though this were a yet
deeper brand of iniquity--"_girls_?"

Nicholas, though greatly mystified, nodded firmly.

"I suppose he thinks away off up here nobody will ever know. Oh, these
Jesuits!"

"How many children has this shameless priest?"

"Father Brachet, him got seventeen boys, and--me no savvy how much
girl--twelve girl ... twenty girl ..."

The Boy, who had 
been splitting with inward laughter, exploded at this
juncture.

"He keeps a native school, Mac."

"Yes," says Nicholas, "teach boy make table, chair, potatoes grow--all
kinds. Sisters teach girl make dinner, wash--all kinds. Heap good
people up at Holy Cross."

"Divil a doubt of it," says O'Flynn.

But this blind belauding of the children of Loyola only fired Mac the
more to give the heathen a glimpse of the true light. In what darkness
must they grope when a sly, intriguing Jesuit (it was well known they
were all like that) was for them a type of the "heap good man"--a
priest, forsooth, who winked at Sabbath-breaking because he and his
neighbouring nuns shared in the spoil!

Well, they must try to have a truly impressive service. Mac and the
Colonel telegraphed agreement on this head. Savages were said to be
specially touched by music.

"I suppose when you were a kid the Jesuits taught you chants and so
on," said the Colonel, kindly.

"Kaiomi," answered Nicholas after reflection.

"You can sing, can't you?" asks O'Flynn.

"Sing? No, me dance!"

The Boy roared with delight.

"Why, yes, I never thought of that. You fellows do the songs, and
Nicholas and I'll do the dances."

Mac glowered angrily. "Look here: if you don't mind being blasphemous
for yourself, don't demoralise the natives."

"Well, I like that! Didn't Miriam dance before the Lord? Why shouldn't
Nicholas and me?"

The Colonel cleared his throat, and began to read the lessons for the
day. The natives sat and watched him closely. They really behaved very
well, and the Boy was enormously proud of his new friends. There was a
great deal at stake. The Boy felt he must walk warily, and he already
regretted those light expressions about dancing before the Lord. All
the fun of the winter might depend on a friendly relation between
Pymeut and the camp. It was essential that the Esquimaux should not
only receive, but make, a good impression.

The singing "From Greenland's icy mountains to India's coral strand"
seemed to please them; but when, after the Colonel
's "Here endeth the
second lesson," Mac said, in sepulchral tones, "Let us pray," the
visitors seemed to think it was time to go home.

"No," said Mac sternly, "they mustn't go in the middle of the meeting";
and he proceeded to kneel down.

But Nicholas was putting on his fur coat, and the others only waited to
follow him out. The Boy, greatly concerned lest, after all, the visit
should end badly, dropped on his knees to add the force of his own
example, and through the opening phrases of Mac's prayer the agnostic
was heard saying, in a loud stage-whisper, "Do like me--down! Look
here! Suppose you ask us come big feast, and in the middle of your
dance we all go home--.

"Oh no," remonstrated Nicholas.

"Very well. These friends o' mine no like man go home in the middle.
They heap mad at me when I no stay. You savvy?"

"Me savvy," says Nicholas slowly and rather depressed.

"Kneel down, then," says the Boy. And first Nicholas, and then the
others, went on their knees.

Alternately they looked in the Boy's corner where the grub was, and
then over their shoulders at the droning Mac and back, catching the
Boy's eye, and returning his reassuring nods and grins.

Mac, who had had no innings up to this point, was now embarked upon a
most congenial occupation. Wrestling with the Lord on behalf of the
heathen, he lost count of time. On and on the prayer wound its slow
way; involution after involution, coil after coil, like a snake, the
Boy thought, lazing in the sun. Unaccustomed knees grew sore.

"Hearken to the cry of them that walk in darkness, misled by wolves in
sheep's clothing--_wolves_, Lord, wearing the sign of the Holy Cross--"

O'Flynn shuffled, and Mac pulled himself up. No light task this of
conveying to the Creator, in covert terms, a due sense of the iniquity
of the Jesuits, without, at the same time, stirring O'Flynn's bile, and
seeing him get up and stalk out of meeting, as had happened once
before.

O'Flynn was not deeply concerned about religious questions, but "there
were limits." The problem was how t
o rouse the Lord without rousing
O'Flynn--a piece of negotiation so delicate, calling for a skill in
pious invective so infinitely absorbing to Mac's particular cast of
mind, that he was quickly stone-blind and deaf to all things else.

"Not all the heathen are sunk in iniquity; but they are weak, tempted,
and they weary, Lord!"

"Amen," said the Boy, discreetly. "How long?" groaned Mac--"Oh Lord,
how long?" But it was much longer than he realised. The Boy saw the
visitors shifting from one knee to another, and feared the worst. But
he sympathised deeply with their predicament. To ease his own legs, he
changed his position, and dragged a corner of the sailcloth down off
the little pile of provisions, and doubled it under his knees.

The movement revealed the bag of dried apples within arm's length.
Nicholas was surreptitiously reaching for his coat. No doubt about it,
he had come to the conclusion that this was the fitting moment to
depart. A look over his shoulder showed Mac absorbed, and taking fresh
breath at "Sixthly, Oh Lord." The Boy put out a hand, and dragged the
apple-bag slowly, softly towards him. The Prince dropped the sleeve of
his coat, and fixed his one eye on his friend. The Boy undid the neck
of the sack, thrust in his hand, and brought out a fistfull. Another
look at Mac--still hard at it, trying to spare O'Flynn's feelings
without mincing matters with the Almighty.

The Boy winked at Nicholas, made a gesture, "Catch!" and fired a bit of
dried apple at him, at the same time putting a piece in his own mouth
to show him it was all right.

Nicholas followed suit, and seemed pleased with the result. He showed
all his strong, white teeth, and ecstatically winked his one eye back
at the Boy, who threw him another bit and then a piece to each of the
others.

The Colonel had "caught on," and was making horrible frowns at the Boy.
Potts and O'Flynn looked up, and in dumbshow demanded a share. No? Very
well, they'd tell Mac. So the Boy had to feed them, too, to keep them
quiet. And still Mac prayed the Lo
rd to catch up this slip he had made
here on the Yukon with reference to the natives. In the midst of a
powerful peroration, he happened to open his eyes a little, and they
fell on the magnificent great sable collar of Prince Nicholas's coat.

Without any of the usual slowing down, without the accustomed warning
of a gradual descent from the high themes of heaven to the things of
common earth, Mac came down out of the clouds with a bump, and the
sudden, business-like "Amen" startled all the apple-chewing
congregation.

Mac stood up, and says he to Nicholas:

"Where did you get that coat?"

Nicholas, still on his knees, stared, and seemed in doubt if this were
a part of the service.

"Where did you get that coat?" repeated Mac.

The Boy had jumped up nimbly. "I told you his father has a lot of
furs."

"Like this?"

"No," says Nicholas; "this belong white man."

"Ha," says Mac excitedly, "I thought I'd seen it before. Tell us how
you got it."

"Me leave St. Michael; me got ducks, reindeer meat--oh, _plenty_
kow-kow! [Footnote: Food] Two sleeps away St. Michael me meet Indian.
Heap hungry. Him got bully coat." Nicholas picked it up off the floor.
"Him got no kow-kow. Him say, 'Give me duck, give me back-fat. You take
coat, him too heavy.' Me say, 'Yes.'"

"But how did he get the coat?"

"Him say two white men came down river on big ice."

"Yes, yes--"

"Men sick." He tapped his forehead. "Man no sick, he no go down with
the ice"; and Nicholas shuddered. "Before Ikogimeut, ice jam. Indian
see men jump one big ice here, more big ice here, and one... go down.
Indian"--Nicholas imitated throwing out a line--"man tie mahout
round--but--big ice come--" Nicholas dashed his hands together, and
then paused significantly. "Indian sleep there. Next day ice hard.
Indian go little way out to see. Man dead. Him heap good coat," he
wound up unemotionally, and proceeded to put it on.

"And the other white man--what became of him?"

Nicholas shrugged: "Kaiomi," though it was plain he knew well enough
the other lay under the Yukon ic
e.

"And that--_that_ was the end of the fellows who went by jeering at
us!"

"We'd better not crow yet," said Mac. And they bade Prince Nicholas and
his heathen retinue good-bye in a mood chastened not by prayer alone.

CHAPTER II

HOUSE-WARMING

"There is a sort of moral climate in a household."--JOHN MORLEY.

No idle ceremony this, but the great problem of the dwellers in the
country of the Yukon.

The Colonel and the Boy made up their minds that, whatever else they
had or had not, they would have a warm house to live in. And when they
had got it, they would have a "Blow-out" to celebrate the achievement.

"We'll invite Nicholas," says the Boy. "I'll go to Pymeut myself, and
let him know we are going to have 'big fire, big feed. Oh, heap big
time!'"

If the truth were told, it had been a difficult enough matter to keep
away from Pymeut since the hour Nicholas had vanished in that
direction; but until winter quarters were made, and until they were
proved to be warm, there was no time for the amenities of life.

The Big Cabin (as it was quite seriously called, in contradistinction
to the hut of the Trio) consisted of a single room, measuring on the
outside sixteen feet by eighteen feet.

The walls of cotton-wood logs soared upward to a level of six feet, and
this height was magnificently increased in the middle by the angle of
the mildly gable roof. But before the cabin was breast-high the Boy had
begun to long for a window.

"Sorry we forgot the plate-glass," says Mac.

"Wudn't ye like a grrand-piana?" asks O'Flynn.

"What's the use of goin' all the way from Nova Scotia to Caribou," says
the Boy to the Schoolmaster-Miner, "if you haven't learned the way to
make a window like the Indians, out of transparent skin?"

Mac assumed an air of elevated contempt.

"I went to mine, not to learn Indian tricks."

"When the door's shut it'll be dark as the inside of a cocoa-nut."

"You ought to have thought of that before you left the sunny South,"
said Potts.

"It'll be dark all winter, window or no window," Mac reminded t
hem.

"Never mind," said the Colonel, "when the candles give out we'll have
the fire-light. Keep all the spruce knots, boys!"

But one of the boys was not pleased. The next day, looking for a
monkey-wrench under the tarpaulin, he came across the wooden box a
California friend had given him at parting, containing a dozen tall
glass jars of preserved fruit. The others had growled at the extra bulk
and weight, when the Boy put the box into the boat at St. Michael's,
but they had now begun to look kindly on it and ask when it was to be
opened. He had answered firmly:

"Not before Christmas," modifying this since Nicholas's visit to "Not
before the House-Warming." But one morning the Boy was found pouring
the fruit out of the jars into some empty cans.

"What you up to?"

"Wait an' see." He went to O'Flynn, who was dish-washer that week, got
him to melt a couple of buckets of snow over the open-air campfire and
wash the fruit-jars clean.

"Now, Colonel," says the Boy, "bring along that buck-saw o' yours and
lend a hand."

They took off the top log from the south wall of the cabin, measured a
two-foot space in the middle, and the Colonel sawed out the superfluous
spruce intervening. While he went on doing the same for the other logs
on that side, the Boy roughly chiselled a moderately flat sill. Then
one after another he set up six of the tall glass jars in a row, and
showed how, alternating with the other six bottles turned upside down,
the thick belly of one accommodating itself to the thin neck of the
other, the twelve made a very decent rectangle of glass. When they had
hoisted up, and fixed in place, the logs on each side, and the big
fellow that went all across on top; when they had filled the
inconsiderable cracks between the bottles with some of the mud-mortar
with which the logs were to be chinked, behold a double glass window
fit for a king!

The Boy was immensely pleased.

"Oh, that's an old dodge," said Mac depreciatingly. "Why, they did that
at Caribou!"

"Then, why in--Why didn't you suggest it?"

"You wa
it till you know more about this kind o' life, and you won't go
in for fancy touches."

Nevertheless, the man who had mined at Caribou seemed to feel that some
contribution from him was necessary to offset the huge success of that
window. He did not feel called upon to help to split logs for the roof
of the Big Cabin, but he sat cutting and whittling away at a little
shelf which he said was to be nailed up at the right of the Big Cabin
door. Its use was not apparent, but no one dared call it a "fancy
touch," for Mac was a miner, and had been to Caribou.

When the shelf was nailed up, its maker brought forth out of his
medicine-chest a bottle of Perry Davis's Pain-killer.

"Now at Caribou," says he, "they haven't got any more thermometers
kicking round than we have here, but they discovered that when Perry
Davis congeals you must keep a sharp look-out for frost-bite, and when
Perry Davis freezes solid, you'd better mind your eye and stay in your
cabin, if you don't want to die on the trail." With which he tied a
string round Perry Davis's neck, set the bottle up on the shelf, and
secured it firmly in place. They all agreed it was a grand advantage to
have been to Caribou!

But Mac knew things that he had probably not learned there, about
trees, and rocks, and beasts, and their manners and customs and family
names. If there were more than a half-truth in the significant lament
of a very different man, "I should be a poet if only I knew the names
of things," then, indeed, Samuel MacCann was equipped to make a mark in
literature.

From the time he set foot on the volcanic shore of St Michael's Island,
Mac had begun his "collection."

Nowadays, when he would spend over "that truck of his" hours that might
profitably (considering his talents) be employed in helping to fortify
the camp against the Arctic winter, his companions felt it little use
to remonstrate.

By themselves they got on rapidly with work on the roof, very much
helped by three days' unexpectedly mild weather. When the split logs
had been marshalled toge
ther on each side of the comb, they covered
them with dried moss and spruce boughs.

Over all they laid a thick blanket of the earth which had been dug out
to make a level foundation. The cracks in the walls were chinked with
moss and mud-mortar. The floor was the naked ground, "to be carpeted
with skins by-and-by," so Mac said; but nobody believed Mac would put a
skin to any such sensible use.

The unreasonable mildness of three or four days and the little surface
thaw, came to an abrupt end in a cold rain that turned to sleet as it
fell. Nobody felt like going far afield just then, even after game, but
they had set the snare that Nicholas told the Boy about on that first
encounter in the wood. Nicholas, it seemed, had given him a noose made
of twisted sinew, and showed how it worked in a running loop. He had
illustrated the virtue of this noose when attached to a pole balanced
in the crotch of a tree, caught over a horizontal stick by means of a
small wooden pin tied to the snare. A touch at the light end of the
suspended pole (where the baited loop dangles) loosens the pin, and the
heavy end of the pole falls, hanging ptarmigan or partridge in the air.

For some time after rigging this contrivance, whenever anyone reported
"tracks," Mac and the Boy would hasten to the scene of action, and set
a new snare, piling brush on each side of the track that the game had
run in, so barring other ways, and presenting a line of least
resistance straight through the loop.

In the early days Mac would come away from these preparations saying
with dry pleasure:

"Now, with luck, we may get a _Xema Sabinii_," or some such fearful
wildfowl.

"Good to eat?" the Boy would ask, having had his disappointments ere
now in moments of hunger for fresh meat, when Mac, with the nearest
approach to enthusiasm he permitted himself, had brought in some
miserable little hawk-owl or a three-toed woodpecker to add, not to the
larder, but to the "collection."

"No, you don't _eat_ Sabine gulls," Mac would answer pityingly.

But those snares ne
ver seemed to know what they were there for. The
first one was set expressly to catch one of the commonest birds that
fly--Mac's _Lagopus albus_, the beautiful white Arctic grouse, or at
the very least a _Bonasa umbellus_, which, being interpreted, is ruffed
ptarmigan. The tracks had been bird tracks, but the creature that swung
in the air next day was a baby hare. The Schoolmaster looked upon the
incident as being in the nature of a practical joke, and resented it.
But the others were enchanted, and professed thereafter a rooted
suspicion of the soundness of the Schoolmaster's Natural History, which
nobody actually felt. For he had never yet pretended to know anything
that he didn't know well; and when Potts would say something
disparaging of Mac's learning behind his back (which was against the
unwritten rules of the game) the Colonel invariably sat on Potts.

"Knows a darned sight too much? No, he _don't_, sir; that's just the
remarkable thing about Mac. He isn't trying to carry any more than he
can swing."

At the same time it is to be feared that none of his companions really
appreciated the pedagogue's learning. Nor had anyone but the Boy
sympathised with his resolution to make a Collection. What they wanted
was eatable game, and they affected no intelligent interest in knowing
the manners and customs of the particular species that was sending up
appetising odours from the pot.

They even applauded the rudeness of the Boy, who one day responded to
Mac's gravely jubilant "Look here! I've got the _Parus Hudsonicus_!"--

"Poor old man! What do you do for it?"

And when anybody after that was indisposed, they said he might be
sickening for an attack of Parus Hudsonicus, and in that case it was a
bad look-out.

Well for Mac that he wouldn't have cared a red cent to impress the
greatest naturalist alive, let alone a lot of fellows who didn't know a
titmouse from a disease.

Meanwhile work on the Big Cabin had gone steadily forward. From the
outside it looked finished now, and distinctly imposing. From what were
l
eft of the precious planks out of the bottom of the best boat they had
made the door--two by four, and opening directly in front of that
masterpiece, the rock fireplace. The great stone chimney was the pride
of the camp and the talk before the winter was done of all "the Lower
River."

Spurred on partly by the increased intensity of the cold, partly by the
Colonel's nonsense about the way they did it "down South," Mac roused
himself, and turned out a better piece of masonry for the Big Cabin
than he had thought necessary for his own. But everybody had a share in
the glory of that fireplace. The Colonel, Potts, and the Boy selected
the stone, and brought it on a rude litter out of a natural quarry from
a place a mile or more away up on the bare mountain-side. O'Flynn mixed
and handed up the mud-mortar, while Mac put in some brisk work with it
before it stiffened in the increasing cold.

Everybody was looking forward to getting out of the tent and into the
warm cabin, and the building of the fireplace stirred enthusiasm. It
was two and a half feet deep, three and a half feet high, and four feet
wide, and when furnished with ten-inch hack logs, packed in glowing
ashes and laid one above another, with a roaring good blaze in front of
birch and spruce, that fire would take a lot of beating, as the Boy
admitted, "even in the tat-pine Florida country."

But no fire on earth could prevent the cabin from being swept through,
the moment the door was opened, by a fierce and icy air-current. The
late autumnal gales revealed the fact that the sole means of
ventilation had been so nicely contrived that whoever came in or went
out admitted a hurricane of draught that nearly knocked him down. Potts
said it took a good half-hour, after anyone had opened the door, to
heat the place up again.

"What! You cold?" inquired the usual culprit. The Boy had come in to
put an edge on his chopper. "It's stopped snowin', an' you better come
along with me, Potts. Swing an axe for a couple of hours--that'll warm
you."

"I've got rheumatism in 
my shoulder to-day," says Potts, hugging the
huge fire closer.

"And you've got something wrong with your eyes, eh, Mac?"

Potts narrowed his and widened the great mouth; but he had turned his
head so Mac couldn't see him.

The Nova Scotian only growled and refilled his pipe. Up in the woods
the Boy repeated the conversation to the Colonel, who looked across at
O'Flynn several yards away, and said: "Hush!"

"Why must I shut up? Mac's _eyes_ do look rather queer and bloodshot. I
should think he'd rather feel we lay it to his eyes than know we're
afraid he's peterin' out altogether."

"I never said I was afraid--"

"No, you haven't _said_ much." "I haven't opened my head about it."

"No, but you've tried hard enough for five or six days to get Mac to
the point where he would come out and show us how to whip-saw. You
haven't _said_ anything, but you've--you've got pretty dignified each
time you failed, and we all know what that means."

"We ought to have begun sawing boards for our bunks and swing-shelf a
week back, before this heavy snowfall. Besides, there's enough
fire-wood now; we're only marking time until--"

"Until Mac's eyes get all right. I understand."

Again the Colonel had made a sound like "Sh!" and went on swinging his
axe.

They worked without words till the Boy's tree came down. Then he
stopped a moment, and wiped his face.

"It isn't so cold to-day, not by a long shot, for all Potts's howling
about his rheumatics."

"It isn't cold that starts that kind of pain."

"No, siree. I'm not much of a doctor, but I can see Potts's rheumatism
doesn't depend on the weather."

"Never you mind Potts."

"I don't mind Potts. I only mind Mac. What's the matter with Mac,
anyway?"

"Oh, he's just got cold feet. Maybe he'll thaw out by-and-by."

"Did you ever think what Mac's like? With that square-cut jaw and
sawed-off nose, everything about him goin' like this"--the Boy
described a few quick blunt angles in the air--"well, sir, he's the
livin' image of a monkey-wrench. I'm comin' to think he's as much like
it inside
 as he is out. He can screw up for a prayer-meetin', or he can
screw down for business--when he's a mind, but, as Jimmie over there
says, 'the divil a different pace can you put him through.' I _like_
monkey-wrenches! I'm only sayin' they aren't as limber as willa-trees."

No response from the Colonel, who was making the chips fly. It had cost
his great body a good many aches and bruises, but he was a capital
axeman now, and not such a bad carpenter, though when the Boy said as
much he had answered:

"Carpenter! I'm just a sort of a well-meanin' wood-butcher"; and deeply
he regretted that in all his young years on a big place in the country
he had learnt so little about anything but horses and cattle.

On the way back to dinner they spoke again of this difficulty of the
boards. O'Flynn whistled "Rory O'More" with his pleasant air of
detachment.

"You and the others would take more interest in the subject," said the
Boy a little hotly, "if we hadn't let you fellows use nearly all the
boat-planks for _your_ bunks, and now we haven't got any for our own."

"_Let_ us use 'em! Faith! we had a right to'm."

"To boards out of _our_ boat!"

"And ye can have the loan o' the whip-saw to make more, whenever the
fancy takes ye."

"Loan o' the whip-saw! Why, it's mine," says the Colonel.

"Divil a bit of it, man!" says O'Flynn serenely. "Everything we've got
belongs to all of us, except a sack o' coffee, a medicine-chest, and a
dimmi-john. And it's mesilf that's afraid the dimmi-john--"

"What's the use of my having bought a whip-saw?" interrupted the
Colonel, hurriedly. "What's the good of it, if the only man that knows
how to use it--"

"Is more taken up wid bein' a guardjin angel to his pardner's
dimmi-john--"

The Colonel turned and frowned at the proprietor of the dimmi-john. The
Boy had dropped behind to look at some marten tracks in the
fresh-fallen snow.

"I'll follow that trail after dinner," says he, catching up the others
in time to hear O'Flynn say:

"If it wusn't that ye think only a feller that's been to Caribou
 can
teach ye annything it's Jimmie O'Flynn that 'ud show ye how to play a
chune on that same whip-saw."

"Will you show us after dinner?"

"Sure I will."

And he was as good as his word.

This business of turning a tree into boards without the aid of a
saw-mill is a thing many placer-miners have to learn; for, even if they
are disposed to sleep on the floor, and to do without shelves, they
can't do sluicing without sluice-boxes, and they can't make those long,
narrow boxes without boards.

So every party that is well fitted out has a whip-saw.

"Furrst ye dig a pit," O'Flynn had said airily, stretched out before
the fire after dinner. "Make it about four feet deep, and as long as
ye'd like yer boards. When ye've done that I'll come and take a hand."

The little job was not half finished when the light tailed. Two days
more of soil-burning and shovelling saw it done.

"Now ye sling a couple o' saplings acrost the durrt ye've chucked out.
R-right! Now ye roll yer saw-timber inter the middle. R-right! An' on
each side ye want a log to stand on. See? Wid yer 'guide-man' on top
sthradlin' yer timberr, watchin' the chalk-line and doin' the pull-up,
and the otherr fellerr in the pit lookin' afther the haul-down, ye'll
be able to play a chune wid that there whip-saw that'll make the
serryphims sick o' plain harps." O'Flynn superintended it all, and even
Potts had the curiosity to come out and see what they were up to. Mac
was "kind o' dozin'" by the fire.

When the frame was finished O'Flynn helped to put the trial-log in
place, having marked it off with charcoal to indicate inch and a
quarter planks. Then the Colonel, down in the pit, and O'Flynn on top
of the frame, took the great two-handled saw between them, and began
laboriously, one drawing the big blade up, and the other down,
vertically through the log along the charcoal line.

"An' _that's_ how it's done, wid bits of yer arrums and yer back that
have niver been called on to wurruk befure. An' whin ye've been at it
an hour ye'll find it goes betther wid a little
 blasphemin';" and he
gave his end of the saw to the reluctant Potts.

Potts was about this time as much of a problem to his pardners as was
the ex-schoolmaster. If the bank clerk had surprised them all by his
handiness on board ship, and by making a crane to swing the pots over
the fire, he surprised them all still more in these days by an apparent
eclipse of his talents. It was unaccountable. Potts's carpentering,
Potts's all-round cleverness, was, like "payrock in a pocket," as the
miners say, speedily worked out, and not a trace of it afterwards to be
found.

But less and less was the defection of the Trio felt. The burly
Kentucky stock-farmer was getting his hand in at "frontier" work,
though he still couldn't get on without his "<DW65>," as the Boy said,
slyly indicating that it was he who occupied this exalted post. These
two soon had the bunks made out of the rough planks they had sawed with
all a green-horn's pains. They put in a fragrant mattress of spring
moss, and on that made up a bed of blankets and furs.

More boards were laboriously turned out to make the great swing-shelf
to hang up high in the angle of the roof, where the provisions might be
stored out of reach of possible marauders.

The days were very short now, bringing only about five hours of pallid
light, so little of which struggled through the famous bottle-window
that at all hours they depended chiefly on the blaze from the great
fireplace. There was still a good deal of work to be done indoors,
shelves to be put up on the left as you entered (whereon the
granite-ware tea-service, etc., was kept), a dinner-table to be made,
and three-legged stools. While these additions--"fancy touches," as the
Trio called them--were being made, Potts and O'Flynn, although
occasionally they went out for an hour or two, shot-gun on shoulder,
seldom brought home anything, and for the most part were content with
doing what they modestly considered their share of the cooking and
washing. For the rest, they sat by the fire playing endless games of
euchre, se
ven-up and bean poker, while Mac, more silent than ever,
smoked and read Copps's "Mining Laws" and the magazines of the previous
August.

Nobody heard much in those days of Caribou. The Colonel had gradually
slipped into the position of Boss of the camp. The Trio were still just
a trifle afraid of him, and he, on his side, never pressed a dangerous
issue too far.

But this is a little to anticipate.

One bitter gray morning, that had reduced Perry Davis to a solid lump
of ice, O'Flynn, the Colonel, and the Boy were bringing into the cabin
the last of the whip-sawed boards. The Colonel halted and looked
steadily up the river.

"Is that a beast or a human?" said he.

"It's a man," the Boy decided after a moment--"no, two men, single
file, and--yes--Colonel, it's dogs. Hooray! a dog-team at last!"

They had simultaneously dropped the lumber. The Boy ran on to tell the
cook to prepare more grub, and then pelted after O'Flynn and the
Colonel, who had gone down to meet the newcomers--an Indian driving
five dogs, which were hitched tandem to a low Esquimaux sled, with a
pack and two pairs of web-foot snow-shoes lashed on it, and followed by
a white man. The Indian was a fine fellow, younger than Prince
Nicholas, and better off in the matter of eyes. The white man was a
good deal older than either, with grizzled hair, a worn face, bright
dark eyes, and a pleasant smile.

"I had heard some white men had camped hereabouts," says he. "I am glad
to see we have such substantial neighbours." He was looking up at the
stone chimney, conspicuous a long way off.

"We didn't know we had any white neighbours," said the Colonel in his
most grand and gracious manner. "How far away are you, sir?"

"About forty miles above."

As he answered he happened to be glancing at the Boy, and observed his
eagerness cloud slightly. Hadn't Nicholas said it was "about forty
miles above" that the missionaries lived?

"But to be only forty miles away," the stranger went on,
misinterpreting the fading gladness, "is to be near neighbours in this
country
."

"We aren't quite fixed yet," said the Colonel, "but you must come in
and have some dinner with us. We can promise you a good fire, anyhow."

"Thank you. You have chosen a fine site." And the bright eyes with the
deep crow's-feet raying out from the corners scanned the country in so
keen and knowing a fashion that the Boy, with hope reviving, ventured:

"Are--are you a prospector?"

"No. I am Father Wills from Holy Cross."

"Oh!" And the Boy presently caught up with the Indian, and walked on
beside him, looking back every now and then to watch the dogs or
examine the harness. The driver spoke English, and answered questions
with a tolerable intelligence. "Are dogs often driven without reins?"

The Indian nodded.

The Colonel, after the stranger had introduced himself, was just a
shade more reserved, but seemed determined not to be lacking in
hospitality. O'Flynn was overflowing, or would have been had the Jesuit
encouraged him. He told their story, or, more properly, his own, and
how they had been wrecked.

"And so ye're the Father Superior up there?" says the Irishman, pausing
to take breath.

"No. Our Superior is Father Brachet. That's a well-built cabin!"

The dogs halted, though they had at least five hundred yards still to
travel before they would reach the well-built cabin.

"_Mush!_" shouted the Indian.

The dogs cleared the ice-reef, and went spinning along so briskly over
the low hummocks that the driver had to run to keep up with them.

The Boy was flying after when the priest, having caught sight of his
face, called out: "Here! Wait! Stop a moment!" and hurried forward.

He kicked through the ice-crust, gathered up a handful of snow, and
began to rub it on the Boy's right cheek.

"What in the name of--" The Boy was drawing back angrily.

"Keep still," ordered the priest; "your cheek is frozen"; and he
applied more snow and more friction. "You ought to watch one another in
such weather as this. When a man turns dead-white like that, he's
touched with frost-bite." After he had restored the circulation
: "There
now, don't go near the fire, or it will begin to hurt."

"Thank you," said the Boy, a little shame-faced. "It's all right now, I
suppose?"

"I think so," said the priest. "You'll lose the skin, and you may be a
little sore--nothing to speak of," with which he fell back to the
Colonel's side.

The dogs had settled down into a jog-trot now, but were still well on
in front.

"Is 'mush' their food?" asked the Boy.

"_Mush?_ No, fish."

"Why does your Indian go on like that about mush, then?"

"Oh, that's the only word the dogs know, except--a--certain expressions
we try to discourage the Indians from using. In the old days the
dog-drivers used to say 'mahsh.' Now you never hear anything but
swearing and 'mush,' a corruption of the French-Canadian _marche_." He
turned to the Colonel: "You'll get over trying to wear cheechalko boots
here--nothing like mucklucks with a wisp of straw inside for this
country."

"I agree wid ye. I got me a pair in St. Michael's," says O'Flynn
proudly, turning out his enormous feet. "Never wore anything so
comf'table in me life."

"You ought to have drill parkis too, like this of mine, to keep out the
wind."

They were going up the <DW72> now, obliquely to the cabin, close behind
the dogs, who were pulling spasmodically between their little rests.

Father Wills stooped and gathered up some moss that the wind had swept
almost bare of snow. "You see that?" he said to O'Flynn, while the Boy
stopped, and the Colonel hurried on. "Wherever you find that growing no
man need starve."

The Colonel looked back before entering the cabin and saw that the Boy
seemed to have forgotten not alone the Indian, but the dogs, and was
walking behind with the Jesuit, face upturned, smiling, as friendly as
you please.

Within a different picture.

Potts and Mac were having a row about something, and the Colonel struck
in sharply on their growling comments upon each other's character and
probable destination.

"Got plenty to eat? Two hungry men coming in. One's an Indian, and you
know what that means, and
 the other's a Catholic priest." It was this
bomb that he had hurried on to get exploded and done with before the
said priest should appear on the scene.

"A _what_?" Mac raised his heavy eyes with fight in every wooden
feature.

"A Jesuit priest is what I said."

"He won't eat his dinner here."

"That is exactly what he will do."

"Not by--" Whether it was the monstrous proposition that had unstrung
Mac, he was obliged to steady himself against the table with a shaking
hand. But he set those square features of his like iron, and, says he,
"No Jesuit sits down to the same table with me."

"That means, then, that you'll eat alone."

"Not if I know it."

The Colonel slid in place the heavy wooden bar that had never before
been requisitioned to secure the door, and he came and stood in the
middle of the cabin, where he could let out all his inches. Just
clearing the swing-shelf, he pulled his great figure up to its full
height, and standing there like a second Goliath, he said quite softly
in that lingo of his childhood that always came back to his tongue's
tip in times of excitement: "Just as shuah as yo' bohn that priest will
eat his dinner to-day in my cabin, sah; and if yo' going t' make any
trouble, just say so now, and we'll get it ovah, and the place cleaned
up again befoh our visitors arrive."

"Mind what you're about, Mac," growled Potts. "You know he could lick
the stuffin' out o' you."

The ex-schoolmaster produced some sort of indignant sound in his throat
and turned, as if he meant to go out. The Colonel came a little nearer.
Mac flung up his head and squared for battle.

Potts, in a cold sweat, dropped a lot of tinware with a rattle, while
the Colonel said, "No, no. We'll settle this after the people go, Mac."
Then in a whisper: "Look here: I've been trying to shield you for ten
days. Don't give yourself away now--before the first white neighbour
that comes to see us. You call yourself a Christian. Just see if you
can't behave like one, for an hour or two, to a fellow-creature that's
cold and hungry. C
ome, _you're_ the man we've always counted on! Do the
honours, and take it out of me after our guests are gone."

Mac seemed in a haze. He sat down heavily on some beanbags in the
corner; and when the newcomers were brought in and introduced, he "did
the honours" by glowering at them with red eyes, never breaking his
surly silence.

"Well!" says Father Wills, looking about, "I must say you're very
comfortable here. If more people made homes like this, there'd be fewer
failures." They gave him the best place by the fire, and Potts dished
up dinner. There were only two stools made yet. The Boy rolled his
section of sawed spruce over near the priest, and prepared to dine at
his side.

"No, no," said Father Wills firmly. "You shall sit as far away from
this splendid blaze as you can get, or you will have trouble with that
cheek." So the Boy had to yield his place to O'Flynn, and join Mac over
on the bean-bags.

"Why didn't you get a parki when you were at St. Michael's?" said the
priest as this change was being effected.

"We had just as much--more than we could carry. Besides, I thought we
could buy furs up river; anyway, I'm warm enough."

"No you are not," returned the priest smiling. "You must get a parki
with a hood."

"I've got an Arctic cap; it rolls down over my ears and goes all round
my neck--just leaves a little place in front for my eyes."

"Yes; wear that if you go on the trail; but the good of the parki hood
is, that it is trimmed all round with long wolf-hair. You see"--he
picked his parki up off the floor and showed it to the company--"those
long hairs standing out all round the face break the force of the wind.
It is wonderful how the Esquimaux hood lessens the chance of
frost-bite."

While the only object in the room that he didn't seem to see was Mac,
he was most taken up with the fireplace.

The Colonel laid great stress on the enormous services of the
delightful, accomplished master-mason over there on the beanbags, who
sat looking more than ever like a monkey-wrench incarnate.

But whether that 
Jesuit was as wily as the Calvinist thought, he had
quite wit enough to overlook the great chimney-builder's wrathful
silence.

He was not the least "professional," talked about the country and how
to live here, saying incidentally that he had spent twelve years at the
mission of the Holy Cross. The Yukon wasn't a bad place to live in, he
told them, if men only took the trouble to learn how to live here.
While teaching the Indians, there was a great deal to learn from them
as well.

"You must all come and see our schools," he wound up.

"We'd like to awfully," said the Boy, and all but Mac echoed him. "We
were so afraid," he went on, "that we mightn't see anybody all winter
long."

"Oh, you'll have more visitors than you want."

"_Shall_ we, though?" Then, with a modified rapture: "Indians, I
suppose, and--and missionaries."

"Traders, too, and miners, and this year cheechalkos as well. You are
directly on the great highway of winter travel. Now that there's a good
hard crust on the snow you will have dog-trains passing every week, and
sometimes two or three."

It was good news!

"We've already had one visitor before you," said the Boy, looking
wonderfully pleased at the prospect the priest had opened out. "You
must know Nicholas of Pymeut, don't you?"

"Oh yes; we all know Nicholas"; and the priest smiled.

"We _like_ him," returned the Boy as if some slighting criticism had
been passed upon his friend.

"Of course you do; so do we all"; and still that look of quiet
amusement on the worn face and a keener twinkle glinting in the eyes.

"We're afraid he's sick," the Boy began.

Before the priest could answer, "He was educated at Howly Cross, he
_says_," contributed O'Flynn.

"Oh, he's been to Holy Cross, among other places."

"What do you mean?"

"Well, Nicholas is a most impartial person. He was born at Pymeut, but
his father, who is the richest and most intelligent man in his tribe,
took Nicholas to Ikogimeut when the boy was only six. He was brought up
in the Russian mission there, as the father had been befor
e him, and
was a Greek--in religion--till he was fourteen. There was a famine that
year down yonder, so Nicholas turned Catholic and came up to us. He was
at Holy Cross some years, when business called him to Anvik, where he
turned Episcopalian. At Eagle City, I believe, he is regarded as a
pattern Presbyterian. There are those that say, since he has been a
pilot, Nicholas makes six changes a trip in his religious convictions."

Father Wills saw that the Colonel, to whom he most frequently addressed
himself, took his pleasantry gravely. "Nicholas is not a bad fellow,"
he added. "He told me you had been kind to him."

"If you believe that about his insincerity," said the Colonel, "are you
not afraid the others you spend your life teaching may turn out as
little credit to you--to Christianity?"

The priest glanced at the listening Indian. "No," said he gravely; "I
do not think _all_ the natives are like Nicholas. Andrew here is a true
son of the Church. But even if it were otherwise, _we_, you know"--the
Jesuit rose from the table with that calm smile of his--"we simply do
the work without question. The issue is not in our hands." He made the
sign of the cross and set back his stool.

"Come, Andrew," he said; "we must push on."

The Indian repeated the priest's action, and went out to see to the
dogs.

"Oh, are you going right away?" said the Colonel politely, and O'Flynn
volubly protested.

"We thought," said the Boy, "you'd sit awhile and smoke and--at least,
of course, I don't mean smoke exactly--but--"

The Father smiled and shook his head.

"Another time I would stay gladly."

"Where are you going now?"

"Andrew and I are on our way to the _Oklahoma_, the steamship frozen in
the ice below here."

"How far?" asked the Boy.

"About seven miles below the Russian mission, and a mile or so up the
Kuskoquim Slough."

"Wrecked there?"

"Oh no. Gone into winter quarters."

"In a slew?" for it was so Father Wills pronounced s-l-o-u-g-h.

"Oh, that's what they call a blind river up in this country. They come
into the bi
g streams every here and there, and cheechalkos are always
mistaking them for the main channel. Sometimes they're wider and deeper
for a mile or so than the river proper, but before you know it they
land you in a marsh. This place I'm going to, a little way up the
Kuskoquim, out of danger when the ice breaks up, has been chosen for a
new station by the N. A. T. and T. Company--rival, you know, to the
old-established Alaska Commercial, that inherited the Russian fur
monopoly and controlled the seal and salmon trade so long. Well, the
younger company runs the old one hard, and they've sent this steamer
into winter quarters loaded with provisions, ready to start for Dawson
the instant the ice goes out."

"Why, then, it's the very boat that'll be takin' us to the Klondyke."

"You just goin' down to have a look at her?" asked Potts enviously.

"No. I go to get relief for the Pymeuts."

"What's the matter with 'em?"

"Epidemic all summer, starvation now."

"Guess you won't find _any_body's got such a lot he wants to give it
away to the Indians."

"Our Father Superior has given much," said the priest gently; "but we
are not inexhaustible at Holy Cross. And the long winter is before us.
Many of the supply steamers have failed to get in, and the country is
flooded with gold-seekers. There'll be wide-spread want this
year--terrible suffering all up and down the river."

"The more reason for people to hold on to what they've got. A white
man's worth more 'n an Indian."

The priest's face showed no anger, not even coldness.

"White men have got a great deal out of Alaska and as yet done little
but harm here. The government ought to help the natives, and we believe
the Government will. All we ask of the captain of the _Oklahoma_ is to
sell us, on fair terms, a certain supply, we assuming part of the risk,
and both of us looking to the Government to make it good."

"Reckon you'll find that steamer-load down in the ice is worth its
weight in gold," said Potts.

"One must always try," replied the Father.

He left the doorpost, s
